As the soldiers of the Khilafah continue waging war on the forces of kufr, we take a glimpse at a number of recent operations conducted by the mujahidin of the Islamic State that have succeeded in expanding the territory of the Khilafah, or terrorizing, massacring, and humiliating the enemies of Allah. These operations are merely a selection of the numerous operations that the Islamic State has conducted on various fronts across many regions over the course of the last few weeks. Khurasan Wilayah On the 1st of Sha’ban, the soldiers of the Khilafah thwarted an attempted special forces raid carried out by the Crusader American army and the murtadd Afghan army in the area of Mamand Ashin in Nangarhar. They clashed with the Crusader soldiers, who were backed by American warplanes and helicopters, leading to a number of Crusaders being killed and others being wounded, in addition to several murtaddin likewise being killed and wounded, with the rest fleeing. On the 7th of Sha’ban, the istishhadi Nusratullah Malenk Kabele  set out with his explosive vehicle and detonated it on a convoy of the Crusader American army near the American embassy in the city of Kabul, leading to 8 American soldiers and a number of Afghan soldiers being killed, with multiple others being wounded. This was in addition to the destruction of two American armored vehicles and a number of Afghan army vehicles. On the 16th of Sha’ban, the istishhadi Abu Handhalah al-Khurasani  detonated his explosive vest on the motorcade of the murtadd, ‘Abdul-Ghafur al-Haydari, the deputy head of the taghut Pakistani senate, near the city of Quetta in Pakistan. He succeeded in wounding him and in killing more than 30 policemen, intelligence personnel, and bodyguards, in addition to wounding more than 40 others. On the 21st of Sha’ban, two inghimasi soldiers of the Khilafah, Abu Ibrahim al-Khurasani and Abu ‘Aishah al Khurasani , carried out an attack on the murtadd government’s television station building in the city of Jalalabad. They parked two explosive motorbikes near the building and detonated them on two groups of Afghan police and security forces. They then entered the building and carried out a massacre on the murtaddin inside for three consecutive hours, leading to approximately 30 Afghan policemen and journalists being killed and a number of others being wounded. East Asia On the 3rd of Sha’ban, the soldiers of the Khilafah killed 5 soldiers of the Crusader Filipino army and wounded 6 others after detonating an explosive device in the city of Manila in the Philippines. On the 10th of Sha’ban, the soldiers of the Khilafah killed 5 Shi’ah and wounded 6 others after detonating an explosive device on them in the middle of the city of Manila. On the 14th of Sha’ban, the soldiers of the Khilafah detonated an explosive device on a group of soldiers belonging to the Crusader Filipino army in the city of Cotabato in the southern Philippines, killing one of them and injuring three others. On the 27th of Sha’ban, the soldiers of the Khilafah launched a wide scale attack on positions of the Filipino Crusader forces in the city of Marawi located on the island of Mindanao towards the south of the Philippines. A number of the mujahidin set out towards the city and attacked the Crusader army’s positions therein, killing and injuring more than 75 Crusaders. The soldiers of the Khilafah also stormed the city’s prison and liberated more than 100 prisoners, among them mujahidin. They also burned a church and took several military vehicles as ghanimah, in addition to a variety of weapons and ammo. Meanwhile, 10 soldiers of the Filipino Crusader army were killed – among them four officers – and two military vehicles were destroyed in an attack by the soldiers of the Khilafah on the island of Jolo Sulu towards the southwest of the Philippines. On the 29th of Sha’ban, two soldiers of the Khilafah carried out an attack targeting a gathering of the murtadd Indonesian police at a bus terminal in the city of Jakarta, killing a number of murtaddin. On the 30th of Sha’ban, the soldiers of the Khilafah burned an armored vehicle belonging to the Crusader Filipino army during the course of clashes in the city of Marawi. On the 6th of Ramadan, the soldiers of the Khilafah captured two armored vehicles in an attack they carried out on a position held by the Filipino Crusader army in Marawi. They also killed four of their soldiers during the course of clashes that took place in the city. Likewise, 14 Filipino soldiers were killed when their position was mistakenly bombed in the city of Marawi. Meanwhile, Abul-Khayr al-Arkhabili  carried out an inghimasi attack on the Resorts World hotel in the city of Manila in the Philippines, killing at least 35 and injuring 70 others. Qawqaz Wilayah On the 16th of Sha’ban, the soldiers of the Khilafah launched an attack on a murtadd police checkpoint in the city of Malgobek in Ingushetia. Baghdad Wilayah On the 23rd of Sha’ban, Abus-Sahabah al-Falluji  carried out an inghimasi attack on the Rafidi police at the Abu Dushayr checkpoint in the area of Dawrah in Baghdad. He clashed with them using his light-caliber weapon and then detonated his explosive belt in their midst. He was followed by Abu Jallad al-Jamili , who detonated his explosive vehicle on the Rafidah who were racing to the site of the attack. The two operations lead to nearly 80 murtaddin from among the police and the Rafidi mushrikin being killed. On the 3rd of Ramadan, the istishhadi Iyad al-‘Iraqi  set out and detonated his explosive vehicle on a gathering of the Rafidi mushrikin in the area of Karradah in the middle of Baghdad, killing and injuring approximately 70 murtaddin. On the 4th of Ramadan, the istishhadi Abu Hasan al-‘Iraqi  detonated his explosive vehicle in the midst of a gathering of Rafidi mushrikin in the area of Shawakah in the middle of Baghdad, killing and injuring at least 53 Rafidi murtaddin. Hamah Wilayah On the 22nd of Sha’ban, a number of Islamic State soldiers carried out an assault on Nusayri positions in the Nusayri village of ‘Aqarib as-Safi in the eastern Hamah countryside. The assault began with the mujahidin stealthily advancing to the village and massacring those in the village until they took control of it. Support detachments then kept the murtaddin busy, targeting their positions in the villages of Mab’ujah and Sabburah with heavy machine guns and mortar rounds. The mujahidin also targeted the city of Salamiyyah with Grad rockets before returning safely back to their positions, carrying with them what Allah had bestowed on them of ghanimah after they had punished the enemies of the religion, killing and injuring more than 170 of them. Idlib Wilayah On the 25th of Sha’ban, a soldier of the Khilafah parked his explosive motorbike in front of a Sahwah base in the village of Tall Tawqan in the Idlib countryside. He then stormed the base, where the heads of the murtaddin were gathered, and simultaneously detonated the motorbike and his explosive vest, killing and injuring more than 50 murtaddin, with three of their leaders among those killed. Britain On the 27th of Sha’ban, one of the soldiers of the Khilafah detonated an explosive device in the midst of a gathering of Crusaders in the British city of Manchester at a shameless concert at Manchester Arena, killing approximately 30 Crusaders and wounding 70 others. On the 8th of Ramadan, a unit of Islamic State soldiers, Abu Sadiq al-Britani, Abu Mujahid al-Britani, and Abu Yusuf al-Britani , carried out an operation striking two locations in London, the first being London Bridge where they ran over a number of Crusaders, and the second being a pub where they stabbed several others before attaining shahadah. Somalia On the 27th of Sha’ban, the istishhadi Abu Qudamah al-Marayhani  carried out an attack on a checkpoint of the murtadd Somali army in the city of Bosaso towards the east of Somalia. He detonated his explosive vest, killing 7 murtaddin and injuring 10 others. Misr On the 1st of Ramadan, an Islamic State covert unit set up an ambush targeting dozens of belligerent Christians who were on their way to the St. Samuel monastery, west of the city of Minya. They succeeded in killing 31 Crusaders and in wounding 24 others, in addition to burning one of their vehicles.