During times of war, tribulations, and hardship, worries abound and hearts reach the throats. Some people are supported by Allah through their iman and their good assumption of Allah, while others perish, turning back on their heels, regressing from their religion, and betraying their brothers. Rather, one finds that many of these are not satisfied with their own defeat, but attempt to transfer that defeat to others, spreading it throughout the Muslim collective. They dismay them regarding their enemies, seeking to scare the Muslims and avert them from fighting them and standing up against them. This is one of the well-known deeds of the munafiqin, and it is widespread between those weak in iman and lacking in conviction, of both men and women. As for the matter of men, then it is well known, and their role has already been thoroughly discussed. And as for women, then the calamity that comes from them is hidden in their transporting this scaremongering from the houses and tongues of the munafiqin to their own houses, and to their husbands and children. Thereby, she falls into committing the deeds of the munafiqin, whether she knows it or not. Irjaf is an Act of the Munafiqin News that is untrue and causes fitnah and confusion is called irjaf, or scaremongering. Al-Qurtubi said in his tafsir, “Irjaf is to solicit fitnah and to spread lies and falsehoods, causing worry and distress thereby.” Allah c has dispraised irjaf and its people in many places in the noble Quran, as He c said, “Allah already knows the hinderers among you and those (hypocrites) who say to their brothers, ‘Come to us,’ and they do not go to battle, except for a few” (Al-Ahzab 18). He also said, “If the hypocrites and those in whose hearts is disease and those who spread rumors in Madinah do not cease, We will surely incite you against them; then they will not remain your neighbors therein except for a little. (They will be) accursed wherever they are found, being seized and massacred completely” (Al-Ahzab 60-61). Al-Jassas said, “In this ayah, there is evidence that scaring the believers and spreading rumors among them that cause them worry and harm is deserving of punishment and exile if they persist in that and do not stop. A group of the munafiqin and others who had no insight in the religion, and they are those in whose hearts is disease, being weak in their certainty, would spread rumors of the kuffar and mushrikin gathering together, cooperating with one another, and marching towards the believers. They would magnify the kuffar’s situation and scare others because of it. So Allah c revealed that about them, telling about their deserving exile and execution if they do not stop. And He c explained that this is the sunnah of Allah, which is the way ordained to adhere to and follow” (Ahkam al-Quran). And due to the severe danger of irjaf, Allah c warned the mujahidin from mixing with its people, as they undermine the ranks through their words and weaken the Muslims through their betrayal, just as He c said, “Had they gone forth with you, they would not have increased you except in confusion, and they would have been active among you, seeking to cause you fitnah. And among you are avid listeners to them. And Allah is Knowing of the wrongdoers” (At-Tawbah 47). Ibn Ishaq said, “A group of the munafiqin would point to Allah’s Messenger g as he was heading out to the Battle of Tabuk, saying to each other, ‘Do you think the combat of Banil-Asfar (i.e. the Romans) is like the fighting of the Arabs among themselves?! It’s as if tomorrow we will be bound in ropes because of you,’ causing fear and fright among the believers” (As-Sirah). Believing in Qadar and Having Trust in Allah’s Promise is the Believing Woman’s Armor The rulings for women in this regard are the same as the rulings for men. So any Muslim woman who falls into that, of frightening the people of her household or other Muslims, spreading rumors that weaken others’ hearts, then she must ask forgiveness from Allah for this sin and correct her iman in the decree of Allah and His qadar. She should understand well that Allah c said, “Say, ‘Never will we be struck except by what Allah has decreed for us; He is our protector.’ And upon Allah let the believers rely” (At-Tawbah 51), and that the Prophet g said to Ibn ‘Abbas, who was riding behind him, “O boy, indeed I shall teach you some words: Safeguard Allah and He will safeguard you. Safeguard Allah and you will find Him before you. And if you ask, then ask Allah. And if you seek aid, seek the aid of Allah. And know that the Ummah, if they all came together to benefit you, they would not benefit you with anything except what Allah prescribed for you. And if they all came together to harm you, they would not harm you with anything except what Allah prescribed against you. The pens have been lifted and the pages have dried” (Reported by Ahmad and at-Tirmidhi). The Muslim woman, if ever she hears something of the scaremongers’ irjaf, regarding the might of our enemies, their preparing to invade us, or their mobilizing against us with all of their equipment, must always put before her eyes the statement of Allah c, as He told the story of the Prophet g and his companions, when the mushrikin mobilized against them: “Those to whom hypocrites said, ‘Indeed, the people have gathered against you, so fear them.’ But it only increased them in faith, and they said, ‘Sufficient for us is Allah, and He is the best disposer of affairs.’ So they returned with favor from Allah and bounty, no harm having touched them. And they pursued the pleasure of Allah, and Allah is the possessor of great bounty. That is only Shaytan who frightens you of his supporters. So fear them not, but fear Me, if you are believers” (Al ‘Imran 173-175). That should be the response of the Muslim woman to the scaremongers and the munafiqin, replying to them by saying, “Sufficient for us is Allah, and He is the best disposer of affairs.” This comes from her certainty that the support of Allah is sufficient for His slaves, no matter how strong their enemies may be. And this is due to her belief that nothing will afflict either her, her family, or anyone else, except that which Allah has already prescribed for them. And she knows that the intimidation of Shaytan only works against his allies, and does not work on the believing slaves of Allah. The Mother of the Believers Khadijah Bint Khuwaylid Kept Allah’s Messenger g Steadfast This duty is even greater among the wives, mothers, and sisters of the mujahidin, that they might support them in their homes, protecting them from the irjaf of the scaremongers and the speech of the munafiqin. So they should only speak to them in ways that will make them more steadfast and strengthen their hearts. One of the best stories of the believing women in this regard is that of the Mother of the Believers Khadijah  as she strengthened her husband the Prophet g when he rushed to her in panic on the first day Jibril came to him in the cave, saying, “Wrap me up, wrap me up.” So they wrapped him in a garment until the fright had passed. Then he spoke to Khadijah, telling her what happened, and he said, “I was worried for myself.” Khadijah replied to him, “Certainly not! By Allah, Allah will never humiliate you. You keep family ties, you bear the burdens of others, you assist those in need, you are hospitable to guests, and you support the truth…” (Reported by al-Bukhari and Muslim from ‘Aishah). She was the first woman to believe in his call, continuing to strengthen his resolve until Allah brought her life to an end. Her adoration remained in the heart of Allah’s Messenger g as a proof of the magnitude of what she did for him, such that he g said of her, “She believed in me when the people disbelieved in me. Shedeclared me to be truthful when the people declared me to be a liar. She gave her wealth to me when the people withheld from me” (Reported by Ahmad from ‘Aishah). Asma Bint Abi Bakr Delivers Her Son Patiently to Death Another example is that of Asma Bint Abi Bakr  on the day her son, the Khalifah of the Muslims ‘Abdullah Ibn az-Zubayr was besieged in Makkah by the army of bughat, led by al-Hajjaj ath-Thaqafi. So he came to seek her counsel about going out to fight them, as their harm had intensified. He said to her, “The people, even my own children and family, have me. There remains with me only a few, who have no more than an hour’s patience, and the enemy is offering me whatever I want of the Dunya. So whatis your view?” She replied, “You, by Allah, O my son, know yourself best. If you know that you are upon the truth and calling to it, then proceed to it – for your companions have been killed for that – and do not let the boys of Bani Umayyah get a hold of and play with your head. But if you only wanted the Dunya, then what a bad slave you would be. You would have destroyed yourself and those who were killed with you. And if you, ‘I was on the truth, but when my companions waned, I became weak,’ then such is not the way of freemen nor those of the religion. For how long will you remain in the Dunya? Being killed is better.” So Amirul-Muminin came close to her and kissed her head, saying, “This, by Allah, is my view. But I loved to know your view. Thus, you have increased my insight with your own. So look, O mother, for I shall be killed on this very day. Do not be saddened, but submitthe matter to Allah.” Ibnuz-Zubayr then turned from her and said, Indeed, when I know it’s my day, I patiently die, and only the freeman knows when his day is nigh; while some of them, after they may know, they do deny.” His mother  heard his words and then said, “By Allah, you will be patient, if Allah wills, for your fathers are Abu Bakr and az-Zubayr, and your mother is Safiyyah Bint ‘Abdil-Muttalib.” Such is the condition of the believing wife with her husband, and such is the condition of the believing mother with her son, letting him go forth on his way to wage jihad against the enemies of Allah, doing what Allah commanded him to do, and by Allah’s permission, she will receive a portion of his deed.