After the aforementioned truths are understood, we can grasp the sought after meaning behind what was building up to the Battle of Fallujah, then its steadfastness and its rising up with all it possessed of might. For today, it is the only battle on the primary outpost of Islam, and steadfastness therein and holding ribat on its lines means to safeguard the primary outpost, from which we can strike at kufr and aggression. This doesn’t mean that we consider the enemy’s entering and moving deep into the city, or that they become fortified on its outskirts, that they have achieved their goals and victory. No, for our battle with this enemy is a war of streets and cities, differing in its tactics and methods, defensively and offensively. And fierce wars are not decided over a period of days or weeks, but it takes a long time for the true announcement of success for either side. It is enough for us that, before the results are decided, our eyes are cooled by seeing the sons of Islam standing firm like tall mountains on the blessed lines of Fallujah, teaching the Ummah new lessons of hardness, patience, and certainty. Perhaps we could cast a look at some of these lessons and the great results produced by this lofty battle. First, this battle gave new life to the meanings of might, honor, and resistance, as the Ummah became certain that there is a group of its sons who are able to confront the grave dangers with boldness, steadfastness, and resolve; and that this group was truthful with its ummah in its plans and projects, through which the Ummah was revived and due to which its sons’ and leaders’ blood was often shed. Second, the Ummah, during its time of humiliation and being fractured, learned that it is able to confront, perform ribat, and battle the heads of the earth and its oppressors with only a few of its sons and a light supply of weapons. It is thus able, thereby, to afflict the enemy with great and painful losses and to force them to sip from the bitter cup of defeat. Third, Fallujah opened the battleground for its contenders, igniting the directed efforts of the sons of Islam inside and outside of Iraq, and by shedding its pure blood which was spilled on its ground through many sons of Islam, in order for them to cover the costs of jihad and to march forth to confront the global Crusader campaign. The battles and carnage burned in various areas of Iraq. Battalions and groups were formed and the mujahidin stood up in defiance, seizing convoys of the enemy, hunting their patrols, and raiding their positions. And by Allah’s grace, we witnessed many of their losses, which were inflicted all across Iraq. So of the causes of pride of this conquest was that the sons of jihad gained confidence as they saw the myths of modern warfare collapsing before them. Their resolve has now been liberated from the illusion of inability and fear, and they have risen to the fields of earnestness and action. Fourth, the Battle of Fallujah achieved an important, strategic military victory, as everyone knows of the superiority of the American military machine and the development of its armies and war discipline, which relies on striking targets from afar without clashing and combat, thereby securing the safety of the American soldier without him being wasted in dangerous battles that could cost him his life. But Fallujah lured this great machine through a carefully managed plan. She lured it to harsh, unconventional street wars that would spend its effort, energy, and equipment. The American soldier would face death and destruction from whence he did not expect, as the Americans were forced to descend into alleys and streets, and to enter houses and buildings. The enemy was exposed to the fires of the mujahidin and their ambushes. Their abilities were taken by surprise through the strategy of attack-and-retreat. They were compelled to engage in close combat for which they were unprepared, suffering great losses of life and equipment, exceeding hundreds of people and dozens of vehicles. Fifth, the American military administration tasted the greatest of defeats, as it became clear to the sponsors and planners of this war that the mujahidin will not be stopped by any kind of deterrent, even if that meant waging a war of total annihilation. For the jihadi mentality has become the greatest dilemma ahead of American and global plans of war. And what happened in Fallujah, of feats of pride and steadfastness, weakened the resolve of the enemy’s leadership and afflicted them with depression, anxiety, and confusion. And what is waiting for them is even more disastrous and bitter, by the help of Allah c. Sixth, Fallujah contributed its share of steadfastness and composure by unveiling the mask from the faces of riddah, nifaq, and treachery. It removed the cloak of deceit worn by the apostate Allawi government, just as it uncovered the lies they repeat about wanting what is in the interest of the Iraqi people by sparing their blood and shielding them from wars and woes, and that they strive to earn their pleasure. Yet all people can see as they move quickly to execute the decision to go to war in Fallujah, washing their hands in the pure blood of the sons of the city, killing thousands of them and displacing tens of thousands, while overseeing the destruction, devastation, degradation of honor, and theft of wealth under the pretext of being at war with terrorism and having concern for the national interest. Seventh, the battle knocked the false mask off the ugly Rafidi image. For they penetrated deeply with their spite into this battle. And with an apparent vileness, they took part in the military campaign against Fallujah with a blessing from the imam of kufr and zandaqah, as-Sistani. They had a major role in operations of killing, pillaging, demolition, and violating the lives of unarmed women, children, and the elderly. Their wicked souls brought them to commit great crimes, as they stormed and desecrated the safe houses of Allah, hanging pictures of their shaytan as-Sistani on the walls and writing with spite, “Today your land and tomorrow your honor.” It should be known that 90% of the National Guard are spiteful Rafidah and 10% of them are from the Kurdish Peshmerga forces. And the scholar spoke the truth when he said about the Rafidah, “Indeed they are a Christian seed planted by the Jews in a Magian land.” Eighth, the hidden lines of the enemies of jihad were revealed in this battle, as military cooperation appeared between those with hostile backgrounds. It came to be that 800 Israeli soldiers participated in the battle, accompanied by 18 rabbis, many of whom were killed therein. This was conveyed by their own journalists and media. Just as Jordanian military participation appeared via their officers, who cooperated in the planning and storming of the city. And this indicates the reality to everyone that Fallujah was a base for jihad that made the enemies of the religion, from among the kuffar and the murtaddin, restless and unable to sleep at night. Ninth, among the greatest results of the battle was the renewal of blood in the veins of the sons of jihad, as well as the increase in their devotion to advancing the work of jihad towards its desired goals and determined plans. This battle produced a generation of leaders, energies, and experiences that were learned through the events and contemplated through experimentation, practice, and gains, being applied with determination towards the designated path, polished by the hardships of the battle, and produced in a strong and mighty mold. The author of “adh-Dhilal” said, “In suffering during jihad for Allah’s cause and facing death at every impasse, the soul becomes accustomed to this danger, which is so frightful that many people discard their morals and values in order to avoid it. Yet this is a simple matter, for those who are used to facing it, whether they are safe from it or not. And turning to Allah at each time one face’s this danger, produces an effect closely comparable to the effect of an electric shock, which is like the reformation of hearts and souls with purity, cleanliness, and righteousness. These are the apparent causes for the overall reconciliation of human society, putting its leadership in the hands of the mujahidin, whose souls care nothing for the vanities and luxuries of the Dunya, and life itself is less important to them as they plunge into the midst of death for Allah’s cause. And nothing comes to their hearts that would distract them from Allah and seeking His contentment.” “When the leadership is placed in the likes of these hands, the whole world and all of its people are set aright. And surrendering the banner of leadership to kufr, misguidance, and corruption becomes impossible, after they had purchased it with their blood, souls, and everything dear and precious to them, which they spent cheaply in order that this banner be taken, not for themselves, but for Allah.” “Then, after all of that, it becomes an easy means to those for whom Allah wants good, that they might attain His pleasure and reward without measure, and an easy means to those for whom Allah wants bad, that they gain what they deserve of His anger, based upon what He knows in His knowledge of all things hidden and unseen.” Tenth, there is the shahadah of selecting that which is best, as this group of believers was honored to have its path mapped by the blood of its sons through shahadah. Such that their major leaders and cadres were on the frontlines. If that indicates anything, it indicates the truthfulness of the sons of this jihad and their sheer determination and resolve to achieve the demands of tawhid and ‘aqidah with complete devotion and sincerity. Theirs are the glad tidings that Allah chose the best and most excellent of them to meet Him, as He decreed shahadah and victory for them with contentment upon what they hoped for and requested. So He fulfilled the promise to them and gave them that which they had sought. Such are the conditions of their righteous predecessors, who aspired for death as their successors aspired for life. Shahadah was the dearest of their desires, and they would rush to the battlefield, loving to kill and be killed for the cause of Allah. And the percentage of those who attained shahadah in war from among the Sahabah was 80 percent. More than half of those who were martyred in the Battle of Yamamah consisted of the Muhajirin and Ansar [...] and it is sufficient for us to mention that the number of shuhada from the qurra, those who memorized the Quran and were the scholars of the Muslims at that time, was 300 in the Battle of Yamamah. Another narration says they were 500. This means that the qurra in a single battle made up 25 to 45% of all shuhada, and that is a very high number. Those who research the lives of the Sahabah  will find that one out of every five of them die in his bed, while four out of five were killed as shuhada in the fields of jihad. So do not be amazed at the speed and duration of spectacular conquests that were achieved during the first century of the Hijrah. It is worthy here to mention our praise of the steadfastness of our heroic mujahidin, and to mention a small part of Allah’s blessings upon them of karamat and divine alleviations, which encompassed them during their battle with the Americans and their supporters in Fallujah. They were made steadfast thereby and their condition was kept stable. Of these was that during the third day of the battle, and after severe and heavy bombardment of the neighborhoods in Fallujah, the mujahidin awoke at night to find American vehicles and tanks in the streets, roads, and alleyways. Under the leadership of Abu ‘Azzam, ‘Umar Hadid, Abu Nasir al-Libi, Abul-Harith Muhammad Jasim al-‘Isawi, and other heroes, the chiefs of the people of Islam went out to them amid the confusion and pushed the invaders to the outskirts of Fallujah. And their weapons during the battle were only the PKT and Kalashnikov. The Americans faced a great massacre, to the extent that many of them were seen fleeing from the battle, hiding in Muslims’ houses. At first, the mujahidin refrained from entering those homes for fear of harming the Muslims, but once they confirmed the presence of the American troops inside them, they found them hiding like cowards and began killing them as if they were beetles and flies, and all excellence and blessing belong to Allah. After some days of the battle, one of the leaders gave an offer to the brothers ‘Umar Hadid and Abul-Harith Jasim al-‘Isawi that they shave their beards and exit Fallujah once a safe way was found for them to escape, so that they could work from the outside. But these two heroes refused and said, “By Allah, we will not leave as long as there remains a single, steadfast muhajir inside the city.” So they fought until they were killed in battle, may Allah have mercy upon them and accept them among His slaves the shuhada. And of these was that some of the brothers endured severe hunger for several days, and after putting their hope and certainty in Allah , they found a huge watermelon. When they opened it, it was the reddest of reds that it could have been. So they ate from it for a number of days, satisfying their hunger, praising Allah, and being amazed, until they concluded that they never tasted anything in the Dunya as pleasant as that watermelon, while bearing in mind that it was neither the time nor place in which watermelons were known to grow. Of these as well was that the brothers suffered greatly regarding their food and drink, such that they faced a great and diminishing scarcity of drinking water, until their mouths and lips began to crack. When they took to searching for some drops of water to quench their tremendous thirst, they entered a house to find three containers of water lined up next to each other in a strange formation. They were amazed at what they saw, as it was not normal in Fallujah or the rest of Iraq to see water placed in such beautiful and strange containers. Then, when they tasted the water, they knew that this was not regular water of the Dunya, and they drank until they were quenched. Thereafter, they swore that they had never drank anything like it in their entire lives. Also of these was that a brother from the Peninsula of Muhammad g was hit in his brain by a sniper bullet, which entered through his forehead and exited from his nape, as pieces of his brain scattered on his right shoulder. His brothers then rushed to him and took what pieces had scattered and gathered them to their place. They then bandaged the wound and left him. He then recovered after a few days and is now alive and well, and is only suffering from a slight slowness when he speaks. We ask Allah to accept from him and his brothers. As for the fragrance of musk… and what can explain to you the fragrance of musk?! For it is a matter that has become an overwhelmingly witnessed narration from most of the mujahidin, as many of our brothers have spoken about the pleasant aromas emanating from the shuhada and the wounded, may Allah accept all of them. And of these is what happened with the hero Abu Talhah al-Bayhani r, who was critically wounded, such that this pleasant odor exuded everywhere, until it diffused onto some of the nearby roads, thus many of the brothers could smell it. He then died as a shahid, as we consider him and Allah is his judge, and we do not presume his judgment over Allah. And from that which brings about steadfastness and assuredness is what has been reported by many of those who were present at those battles, which is that they heard the neighing of horses and clashing of swords at the flaring and harshest times of the battles. So the brothers were repeatedly amazed by this. They would ask their brothers of the ansar if there were horses near to Fallujah, to which the ansar would respond in the negative, and they became certain that the area had nothing of steeds. So all praise belongs to Allah, first and last. Ahmad reported in his musnad and al-Hakim in al-Mustadrak from Abu Burdah Ibn Qays, the brother of Abu Musa, that Allah’s Messenger g said, “O Allah, make the end of my ummah through being killed in Your cause, by piercing and plague.” Allah c said, “And never think of those who have been killed in the cause of Allah as dead. Rather, they are alive with their Lord, receiving provision, rejoicing in what Allah has bestowed upon them of His bounty, and they receive good tidings about those (to be killed as shuhada) after them who have not yet joined them, that there will be no fear upon them, nor will they grieve” (Al ‘Imran 169-170). Live as a king or die with honor, for if you die and your sword is drawn, by your sword you are forgiven. This is a quick, brief glimpse at the fruits and results of steadfastness and endurance on the blessed soil of Fallujah. The achievements that were realized contained many benefits and had magnificent consequences. Whoever reflects over the events and their places, while being fair, will understand and comprehend them. O ummah of Islam! You have been wounded and defamed incessantly and your illnesses and ailment cannot be treated except by tawhid, which is fastened to the banners of jihad. So when will make the correct decision to go forth and escape your executioner? The battles today will neither cease nor settle, and our Prophet g truly loved that he not sit back, away from a detachment that went forth to fight for Allah’s cause. Rather, he kept making raids and waging jihad at all times. I remind you of the discussion between Jibril and Allah’s Messenger g after the Battle of the Ahzab, that when Allah’s Messenger g left for Madinah, he put down his weapon and immediately Jibril came to him and said, “Have you put down your weapon? By Allah, the angels have not yet put down their weapons! So go, you and those with you to Bani Quraydhah, for I am marching ahead of you to shake them in their fortresses and cast terror into their hearts.” So Jibril marched forth in his procession of angels, and Allah’s Messenger g marched after them in his procession of Muhajirin and Ansar. How has it become so minor of a thing to you, O Muslims, to see your brothers – the sons of your religion – after all kinds of torment, murder, and ruin have been committed against them. Yet you remain safe in your homes, secure with your families and wealth… how is that?! Thus, we mixed our blood with flowing tears, that there be no target for their launchers. The worst of one’s weapons are tears he sheds when the war’s flames are lit by sharpened cutters. So O sons of Islam, indeed behind you are events which cast dust into the breeze, How does the eye sleep when its lids are filled with errors that waken all of the sleepers? Your brothers in Iraq have made their beds the backs of old horses or bellies of vultures. They are wronged by Rome in disgrace while you drag the tail of shame, as pacifists do. “Allah prevails over His affair, but most people do not know” (Yusuf 21), and all praise belongs to Allah, the Lord of the creation. 