Allah c said, “It is He who expelled the disbelievers among the People of the Scripture from their homes at the first gathering. You did not think they would leave, and they thought that their fortresses would protect them from Allah; but [the decree of] Allah came upon them from where they had not expected, and He cast terror into their hearts” (Al-Hashr 2). Just one week before the blessed month of Ramadan, the world’s attention was focused on the British city of Manchester. A soldier of the Khilafah had carried out a Just Terror operation, striking Manchester Arena at the conclusion of a concert by an American singer. The explosion rocked the city and filled its residents with terror as many of them scrambled to try to contact their loved ones and ensure that they were safe. Then, the casualty figures started emerging: More than 20 had been killed and dozens more had been wounded. The total would later climb to nearly 100 dead and wounded. In the wake of the bombing, the panic-ridden friends and relatives took to social media to enlist the help of strangers in the search for their loved ones, local pubs began offering free booze to emergency personnel in need of clearing their minds of the traumatic scenes they had witnessed, British “Muslims” came out and offered their token denunciations out of fear of retaliation, massive numbers of police and military personnel were deployed on the streets, the UK threat level was raised to “Critical,” Politicians brought their campaigning for the upcoming general elections to a halt, the distraught and “broken” American singer placed her European tour on hold and went home, and the Chelsea FC football team cancelled their victory parade in London. The enemies of Islam did their best to put on a brave and defiant face, but their efforts were a complete failure. They were clearly suffering. On the surface, the operation in Manchester seemed to confirm what so many analysts had been asserting for some time now: that with the loss of territory in Iraq and Sham, the Islamic State would shift its focus towards carrying out attacks on Crusader soil. What many of these analysts failed to admit, however, is that losing territory was nothing new for the Islamic State. The loss of most of its territory in the wake of the Sahwah initiative in Iraq did not lead to its defeat. Rather, it only led to the Islamic State regrouping, redoubling its efforts, rekindling the flames of war, recapturing every inch of territory it had lost, and expanding into Sham, Sinai, Khurasan, and multiple other regions around the world, regions where no one would have expected that the mujahidin would take control and establish the rule of Allah. So it came as no surprise when, several thousand miles from Manchester, the soldiers of the Khilafah in East Asia stormed the city of Marawi in the southern Philippines on the island of Mindanao, chased out the local police and the military, and raised the banner of the Islamic State in a scene reminiscent of the liberation of Mosul from the Rafidi murtaddin and their Crusader allies. The victory came several weeks after Rodrigo Duterte, the Crusader taghut of the Philippines, admitted that the situation in the southern part of the Philippines was giving him a headache and making him lose sleep. This taghut came into power believing that he had the ability to negotiate with the “Islamist militants” in the southern region of the Philippines, particularly those in his own homeland of Mindanao, in the hopes of bringing an end to their jihad and subsequently expelling the American forces present in the Philippines. But when the soldiers of the Khilafah repeatedly demonstrated to him that they only negotiate with their enemies using bullets and bombs, he was reduced to begging the mayors governing the Muslim areas in the southern part of the country to help him deal with the mujahidin, while simultaneously threatening to impose martial law in their areas if the problem wasn’t tackled. Then, when the soldiers of the Khilafah stormed the city of Marawi, he held to his promise and imposed martial law, sending in his military to try to regain control of the city, with the mujahidin subsequently massacring dozens of his Crusader soldiers and kindling a new front in their war against kufr. The reality faced by the Crusaders today is that despite their claims that the Islamic State has been weakened, the mujahidin’s ousting of the Crusaders and their puppets and their attainment of consolidation in the land can come as quickly and unexpectedly in any region of the earth, just as they did previously in Mosul, and their strikes in the heart of the Crusaders’ strongholds in the West will continue to occur just as suddenly and unexpectedly as occurred in Manchester. For just as Allah c expelled the disbelieving Crusaders at their first gathering and mobilization in Iraq, it is He who will expel them from the lands of the Muslims in the Philippines and cast terror into their hearts in their own strongholds in the West. “And Allah prevails over His affair, but most of the people do not know” (Yusuf 21).