The amir of the soldiers of the Khilafah in East Asia contradicts the claims of the taghut of the Philippines concerning the ability of the taghut’s army to wipe out the mujahidin, and reminds us of the many battles which the soldiers of the Islamic State have engaged in against the Crusader Filipino army in which the scales have tipped in favor of the people of tawhid against the mushrikin despite the mushrikin’s large numbers when it comes to personnel and equipment. Throughout his discussion with Rumiyah, Shaykh Abu ‘Abdillah al-Muhajir likewise narrates part of the story of jihad in East Asia, arriving at the mujahidin’s bay’ah to Amirul-Muminin, Shaykh Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi , their joining the Islamic State, and the conquests which have taken place at their hands thereafter. He also clarifies that the Moro liberation front, with its various trends, has fallen into the trap of successive Crusader governments in the Philippines that have offered them nothing but false promises which they abandoned their weapons in order to obtain, and revealed that many fighters have left these movements after discovering the evil nature of their methodology and the lies perpetrated by their leaders, with some of these fighters joining the Islamic State. He then directs a message through Rumiyah Magazine to all Muslims in the world, calling them to make hijrah to the regions in which the soldiers of the Khilafah are widely present in East Asia, and to do so in support of their brothers and in order to establish their state. He also gives glad tidings that many muhajirin from various regions have reached them and joined their ranks. Rumiyah Magazine presents here its interview with Shaykh Abu ‘Abdillah al-Muhajir, the amir of the soldiers of the Khilafah in East Asia. Question: Assalamu ‘alaykum wa rahmatullahi wa barakatuh. Can you tell us about the condition of the Muslims in the Philippines? Answer: Wa ‘alaykum assalam wa rahmatullahi wa barakatuh. All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the creation. May blessings and peace be upon Allah’s trustworthy Messenger, and upon his family, his companions, and those who follow them in righteousness until the Day of Judgment. As for what follows: The condition of the Muslims in East Asia is like the condition of their brothers in all the regions of the earth who neither have one jama’ah that brings them together, nor an imam who leads them. They were groups, parties, tribes, and organizations who were scattered and divided, and the mushrikin benefited from this tremendously. With the spread of Christianity on a large scale in this region under the sword of Crusader colonialism and with support from it, and with this continuing until the current period, wiping out Islam in this region was among the most important declared goals of the mushrikin. They attempted to place pressure on the Muslims using every means in order to change their religion and remove them from the land, and this is what gave birth to a good reaction, such that the people awoke from their slumber and carried weapons against the Crusader government and its criminal military. And this was what stunned the mushrikin, especially in the midst of their inability to subdue those attributing themselves to Islam and their inability to subjugate them once more. So they were forced to stop their shedding of blood and bring their aggression against their areas to a halt, and their greatest dream became making them sit back and not fight. But how far that is! For despite the crimes of the Crusaders, and the betrayal and treachery of the treacherous, the people continue to keep hold of their weapons, ready to fight the Christians at any time. And in this environment of enmity between the people of tawhid and the people of shirk, a new generation of youth was brought up. They learned tawhid, knew wala and bara, and placed before themselves the goal of establishing Allah’s rule in the land in this region which had become a thorn in the throats of the belligerent Christians, the pagan Buddhists, and all the other religions of shirk. But the large number of parties and banners, and the multitude of leaders steering the people from one form of misguidance to another distanced the people from achieving their lofty goals, and even plunged many of them into shirk and apostasy with their treading of the path of the murtadd brotherhood, their entrance into democracy, and their allying with the mushrikin. However, a group of muwahhidin remained, concerned with not allowing the rule in this land to be except for Allah c. These were the vanguard among those who gave bay’ah to Amirul-Muminin  and joined the Islamic State – may Allah bless it for us. Question: How was the condition of the mujahidin in East Asia before the declaration of the Khilafah? And what are the fruits you’ve achieved by joining the ranks of the Islamic State? Answer: As I mentioned previously, despite the good effects of carrying weapons against the Crusaders in the archipelago, the people here have not rid themselves of the disease of the factions and parties, which has afflicted every arena of jihad, especially before the return of the Khilafah and the reformation of the jama’ah of the Muslims under the leadership of a Muslim imam. Likewise, the people of misguidance were quick to take advantage of the events, steering the people towards enacting a truce with the Crusaders and climbing onto their shoulders in order to take up positions within the kafir governments. At this point, the people of tawhid exerted their efforts to teach the people the religion of Islam and to incite them to continue waging jihad until the religion is established in this land. However, the people clung to the earth and were pleased with the few crumbs they obtained from the mushrikin. And given their small number of personnel and equipment, and the weakness of their supporters among mankind, despair began to creep into the hearts of many of the youth, and unfortunately, some of them remained behind from jihad and became busy with obtaining their sustenance and raising their children, while others made hijrah to other jihad arenas where they saw hope in establishing the religion of Allah in the land. From among Allah’s blessings upon us and upon all the Muslims around the world is that Shaykh Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi  declared the re-establishment of the Khilafah. So we raced to give bay’ah to Amirul- Muminin just a few days after the announcement of the return of the Khilafah, in obedience to Allah’s command and in an endeavor to bring the mujahidin scattered in this region together under the banner of the Islamic State. However, the announcement of our bay’ah was delayed for a period of time until Allah made it easy for us to release it, and subsequently there was much good in it for the jihad in the entire archipelago. This is especially so given that the battalions and detachments which united under the banner of the Islamic State are among the best groups in terms of manhaj, the clearest in terms of ‘aqidah, and the fiercest in fighting the mushrikin, and there is no greater evidence of that than the large scale battles which the soldiers of the Islamic State engaged in against the Crusader Filipino army over the course of the past two years, including their repelling of several major military campaigns, their killing of hundreds of soldiers of the Crusader army, and their storming of multiple cities that were under the control of the Crusaders. And the city of Marawi, which the mujahidin have taken control of, will not be the last of them, by Allah’s permission. Question: What is the condition of the jihad arena where you are, and what are the areas in East Asia in which you are present? What are the most significant battles which the mujahidin have engaged in against the Crusader government after the declaration of the Khilafah, and what is the nature of your operations? Answer: The condition of the mujahidin here, in general, goes from good to better. They continue to increase in numbers and weapons, and they now have large numbers – by Allah’s grace – in Mindanao, in the southern Philippines in East Asia. Also, many muhajirin have reached us from various countries in the region of East Asia, and even from regions outside of East Asia, and all praise is due to Allah. We had several battles in various areas of the country since the declaration of the Khilafah. In Basilan alone there were five battles, among the most important of them being a battle that lasted for 46 days, in which planes, helicopters, and artillery cannons were used to strike the muwahhidin day and night, and in which the number of soldiers killed from among the enemy reached a total of approximately 100, without including the number of wounded. And likewise was the case in the important region of Ranao. The city of Ranao saw another five battles since the declaration of the Khilafah, among the most important of which was the third battle in Butig in the year 1437 AH, which began when the areas of the mujahidin were bombarded with aerial airstrikes carried out at night by helicopters and during the day by fighter planes, in addition to artillery bombardment conducted day and night for a period of 6 consecutive months. The enemy had equipment and weapons such as planes, tanks, helicopters, and artillery cannons, whereas the mujahidin had little in the way of equipment and weaponry but much in the way of reliance upon Allah and seeking refuge with Him, so Allah blessed them with the killing of hundreds of the enemy and aided the mujahidin against them. As for Maguindanao, the mujahidin exhausted their arrogant Crusader enemies therein, by Allah’s grace and favor. And in general, the Crusaders have tasted calamities from us, by Allah’s grace, and we became well-acquainted with them throughout these many battles and have found them to be cowards at the time of battle despite their large numbers and the size of their weapons, so Allah aided us against them and we massacred them. Question: Can you tell us about the Moro liberation front and how they came to sign an agreement with the Crusader government? Answer: The Moro liberation front was originally a heterogeneous mix of trends, schools of thought, and conflicting personalities with incompatible goals, despite the fact that they were largely characterized as following the Murtadd Brotherhood. For this reason, it suffered many breakups over the course of the last four decades, and was also shaken by serious differences over how to deal with the Crusader government, with one trend having long rejected taking a militant approach and insisting on negotiating with the Crusader government and accepting anything that it would offer, and another trend that saw weapons as the single means of ousting the Crusader Filipino army from Muslim areas. The Crusaders heavily succeeded in taking advantage of these differences among them. They gave the submissive faction the most miniscule of offers, and then forced the prowar faction to be content with that miniscule offer. They then began to evade their obligation towards that miniscule offer which they had promised to fulfill,leading the front’s leadership – with its varying trends – to discover that the Crusaders had been toying with them all those years. But this didn’t change the situation in any way, for the people had already begun to relish sitting back and not fighting, were content with the trivial positions they had obtained, and were even pleased with entering and partaking in the game of shirki democracy. This affair helped uncover the reality of those misleading deviants – and all praise is due to Allah – and also helped distance the youth from them and led to many of the youth joining the mujahid groups which were established upon tawhid and would never accept putting down their weapons, and whose declared goal was the establishment of Allah’s rule in the land, at the forefront of these groups being the groups, battalions, and detachments that joined the Islamic State. Today, the leadership of the Moro liberation front – with their varying trends and visions – are powerless before the influence of the Crusader Filipino government and can do nothing other than to complain against the Crusaders’ violation of the pledges they made to them, and yet at the same time, they claim to have thousands of armed fighters under their command without the ability to mobilize them against the Crusaders due to their fear of being labeled as terrorists. Question: The Crusader media frequently talks about the Filipino president’s promise that the end of the mujahidin over there is near. What is the reality of that? Answer: With regards to the taghut of the Philippines, “Duterte,” his soul has enticed him in that regard and he thought that he could extinguish the light of Allah with his words, but Allah spoke the truth when He said, “They want to extinguish the light of Allah with their mouths, but Allah refuses except to perfect His light, although the disbelievers dislike it” (At-Tawbah 32). Ever since the people of this land embraced Islam, the disbelievers have not ceased planning to wage war against them for so much as a single day. And why would they, when Allah’s Messenger g said, “There will not cease to be a group from my ummah fighting upon the truth, manifest over those who oppose them until the last of them fights al-Masih ad- Dajjal” (Reported by Ahmad and Abu Dawud). So has this taghut eliminated the mujahidin and wiped them off the map? Or is it that the mujahidin continue increasing in numbers and growing in strength – with their Lord’s permission – from one period of time to another? By Allah, they will not be able to extinguish the light of Allah, and Allah has promised us that He will perfect His light and make His religion manifest over all others. “It is He who has sent His Messenger with guidance and the religion of truth to manifest it over all religion, although the mushrikin dislike it” (At-Tawbah 33). Question: Is there anyone who has joined the tawaghit in their war on the soldiers of the Khilafah in East Asia, and do the tawaghit in the neighboring regions or in any other regions play a role in that regard? Answer: Yes, there are those who’ve become entangled in that, and they lie in wait and monitor the news of the mujahidin here, and among them are Russia and America, even though each of them is busy with its own wars and catastrophes in Iraq and Sham. Question: Do you continue to receive muhajirin up until now? And is there a way open for those who wish to join you? Answer: Yes – and all praise is due to Allah – we continue to receive muhajirin, and we welcome them. There are several safe paths and ways to achieve that, but everyone who wishes to march forth must exert effort in that regard with sincerity and supplicate to Allah that He makes hijrah easy for him and brings him to the arenas of ribat and fighting so that he may attain the pleasure of his Lord, the Most Merciful. Question: What is your message to the Crusaders in general, and to those in East Asia in specific? Answer: As for my message to the Crusaders, I say: O Crusaders, rejoice over that which will bring you harm, for the soldiers of the Islamic State in East Asia will continue upon their path until Allah shakes by them the thrones of Washington and Moscow, either by honoring those who are honored or humiliating those who are humiliated – with honor by which Allah honors Islam and with humiliation by which Allah humiliates kufr – whether you like it or not. And the dominion of our ummah will reach everything which night and day reaches, with the permission of our Lord, the Most Merciful. So either you submit or pay the jizyah willingly while subdued, or you prepare yourselves, for we will raid you after this campaign of yours, if Allah wills, and you will find us patient, triumphant, and conquering, with Allah’s permission. Question: Do you have a message for the muwahhidin around the world in general, and to those in East Asia in specific? Answer: Yes. O muwahhidin around the world, your state has been established just as your prophet has informed you, and it has come to you just as he described it to you, and we have full conviction – without any trace of doubt – that it is a khilafah upon the prophetic methodology. So be very wary of allowing it to be attacked from your direction while you still have an eye that blinks and a vein that pulses. Sell your commodity to Allah cheaply and perform your deeds with sincerety towards Allah, such that the angels boast of them and the disbelieving shayatin among jinn and mankind are enraged by them. And teach the Crusaders that zero hour has arrived, and that the time has come to take them to account for their shirk with Allah, their killing and expelling of the oppressed Muslims around the world and their violation of their honor and wealth. And inform them that our meeting will be at Washington and Moscow, and that the news – with Allah’s permission – will be what they see, not what they have heard.