He was a young man from Malaysia who was steadfast and patient upon the path of jihad until he attained shahadah – we consider him so, and Allah is his judge. He was known among his companions for his humility and his lack of desire for the Dunya. He was a devout worshiper who would pray at night and fast during the day, and who would recite the Quran, memorize it, and contemplate it. These were his deeds and his habits in his daily life in the land of jihad. He would likewise be gracious in assisting the brothers, whether in the kitchen or elsewhere, and he would not forget to remember Allah at all times. This was how he remained until he was honored with shahadah. His good conduct and his kindness towards the Muslims made him beloved among the brothers, his severe enmity and rage towards the kuffar led to him being pursued by his enemies, and the strength of his resolve and might terrorized the criminals of the taghut government in his land. When he heard the call to jihad, he set out, responding to the call of Allah and His Messenger. He made hijrah to the Philippines in “2006” and joined the ranks of the mujahidin in the Abu Sayyaf Islamic movement – which, at the time, was under the leadership of Shaykh Khadaffy Janjalani  – with brothers from Indonesia and Malaysia. He waged jihad with them for a short period and then returned to his land and his place of birth in Sabah, carrying with him the manhaj of jihad and determined to open a jihad front there. However, Allah decreed that he would be detained and imprisoned by the taghut of Malaysia. He remained in prison for two years with patience and steadfastness, despite the plots of the enemies, from among the scholars of evil who call to the gates of Hellfire and the abandonment of jihad and its illuminated path, and from among those who – after having tread the path of jihad and then turned back – call to deserting the mujahidin. Abu Sabah remained patient and steadfast, and the enemy’s plots and the torture he suffered did nothing but increase him in faith and conviction. In prison, he dedicated his time to worship and to seeking knowledge from the mujahidin imprisoned with him. They would counsel one another to remain patient and steadfast, and he would always make du’a for Allah to return him to the ranks of the mujahidin. In the year “2008,” he came out of prison, and the taghut government of Malaysia continued to monitor him wherever he went, but he did not weaken and did not despair of joining the ranks of the mujahidin once again, and in the year “2011” Allah granted him the blessing of making hijrah once more to the Philippines. The taghut Malaysian government was enraged when it found out that he had reached the land of jihad in the Philippines, and it later joined the Crusader Filipino government in its war against the mujahidin there. But no matter how harsh the situation became for the mujahidin on account of the kuffar, they remained patient, having certainty in Allah’s promise, and their hardships did not increase them in anything but love for their mujahid brothers and enmity towards their kafir enemy. After a long period of jihad, trials, and tribulations, there came to them the good tidings of the establishment of the Islamic State, the hope and dream which Allah brought about for the Muslims. It was the Khilafah which had been lost for an era of time and which Abu Sabah and his mujahid brothers in the Philippines as well as other lands had been awaiting. Thus, he raced to join that blessed caravan, and he and his mujahid brothers from among the muhajirin and ansar gave bay’ah to the Khalifah in the year “2014.” When the Filipino Crusader government came to know of this group of mujahidin and of the presence of the Khilafah’s army in the region, it began waging war against them in order to uproot them and extinguish their light. However, Abu Sabah and the mujahidin showed patience and steadfastness, and remained loyal to their bay’ah to the Khilafah, neither backtracking nor being shaken, and Abu Sabah would advise his mujahid brothers to persist in their patience and steadfastness in the face of the many trials and tribulations, and to abandon the Dunya and yearn for the Hereafter. Allah tested the brothers until some of them were killed, having fulfilled their covenants, while others continued waiting for their opportunity, not having altered in the least, despite the plots of the kuffar and munafiqin. Abu Sabah took part in many battles in the Philippines, including a battle on the island of Jolo Sulu, another in the area of Maguindanao, and one on the island of Basilan, and he did not forget to call the brothers unite under one banner – the banner of the Khilafah – and for this reason, in “2016,” he established a battalion which he named “The Battalion of the Muhajirin and Ansar,” together with several muhajirin from Malaysia and Indonesia. He then gave bay’ah to the Khalifah of the Muslims for the second time and joined the ranks of the mujahidin under the banner of Shaykh Abu ‘Abdillah al-Basilani , who had been designated as their leader by the Islamic State. In the month of Shawwal in the year 1437 AH, a fierce battle took place on the island of Basilan between the soldiers of Allah and the soldiers of Shaytan. The battle lasted for one month, and the mujahidin fought under the leadership of Shaykh Abu ‘Abdillah. During the course of the battle, Abu Sabah awoke early one morning and, as was his habit, began working in the kitchen to assist his brothers in preparing the food. When the food was ready he heard the sound of a warship heading towards their camp. He raced to get ready, grabbed his weapon, and proceeded towards the enemy like a lion chasing after its prey. He then made takbir and attacked the ship, engaging its crew in battle. By Allah’s decree, the ship fired a shell that struck very close to him and he fell down, wounded. When his brothers saw this they raced to his aid, but he had passed on, leaving behind the Dunya and departing to his eternal abode. Abu Sabah  attained shahadah just one month after his marriage, and Allah made his death a fire against the mushrikin and a light for his mujahid brothers.