As the soldiers of the Khilafah continue waging war on the forces of kufr, we take a glimpse at a number of recent operations conducted by the mujahidin of the Islamic State that have succeeded in expanding the territory of the Khilafah, or terrorizing, massacring, and humiliating the enemies of Allah. These operations are merely a selection of the numerous operations that the Islamic State has conducted on various fronts across many regions over the course of the last few weeks. East Asia On the 9th of Ramadan, approximately 10 soldiers of the Crusader Filipino army were killed in clashes with the soldiers of the Khilafah in the area of Mama Sabano south of Cotabato. On the 13th of Ramadan, the soldiers of the Khilafah targeted a position held by the Crusader Filipino army with mortar rounds in the area of Batikul on the island of Jolo Sulu. The mujahidin also destroyed one of the Crusaders’ troop carriers in the area of Maguindanao. On the 14th of Ramadan, 11 soldiers of the Crusader Filipino army were killed in clashes with the soldiers of the Khilafah, and 8 others were sniped and killed in the neighborhood of Dagudian in the city of Marawi. One of their armored vehicles was also disabled after being targeted with rocket projectiles. On the 16th of Ramadan, 12 soldiers of the Crusader Filipino army were killed in clashes with the soldiers of the Khilafah in the neighborhood of the Aykum station. Another 5 were likewise killed after being targeted with sniper weapons in the neighborhood of Mabandi in Marawi. On the 19th of Ramadan, the soldiers of the Khilafah engaged in clashes with the Crusader Filipino army in the neighborhood of Monkado, killing three of them. Another 5 were likewise sniped and killed in the neighborhood of Mabandi. On the 22nd of Ramadan, two Filipino soldiers were killed in clashes in the neighborhood of Bunud Madaya in Marawi. On the 23rd of Ramadan, a Filipino armored vehicle was destroyed using a rocket projectile, and 5 Crusaders were killed and another 9 wounded in clashes with the soldiers of the Khilafah in the neighborhood of Laylud Madaya in Marawi. On the 24th of Ramadan, sniper units killed four soldiers of the Crusader Filipino army in the neighborhoods of Marinot and Laylud Kadayunan in Marawi. Another 5 Crusaders were killed in confrontations with the soldiers of the Khilafah in the neighborhood of Mankado in Marawi. On the 25th of Ramadan, the soldiers of the Khilafah killed 7 soldiers of the Crusader Filipino army in confrontations in the neighborhood of Baling in Marawi. On the 26th of Ramadan, the soldiers of the Khilafah engaged in fierce clashes with the Crusader Filipino army in the neighborhoods of Laylud Madaya, Baling, and Marinot in Marawi, leading to 13 Crusaders being killed and a number of others being wounded. On the 3rd of Shawwal, the soldiers of the Khilafah killed 13 soldiers of the Crusader Filipino army in clashes that took place in several neighborhoods in Marawi. They also targeted a Crusader armored vehicle in the neighborhood of Marinot with an RPG, leading to it being destroyed and at least 5 Crusaders inside being killed. On the 8th of Shawwal, the soldiers of the Khilafah engaged in fierce clashes with the Crusader Filipino army in the neighborhood of Monkado Colony in Marawi, leading to 8 Crusaders being killed. On the 10th of Shawwal, 9 soldiers of the Crusader Filipino army were killed in clashes with the soldiers of the Khilafah in the neighborhood of Baling in Marawi. Australia On the 10th of Ramadan, a soldier of the Khilafah  carried out an operation in the city of Melbourne. He took a woman hostage and then killed one of the citizens of Crusader Australia. After luring the police to his location, he opened fire on them, wounding three of them before attaining shahadah. Persia On the 12th of Ramadan, five Islamic State inghimasiyyin carried out a blessed operation in which they targeted the stronghold of kufr and Rafd in the land of Persia. They struck two symbols of shirk, the first being the shirki parliament, and the second being the grave of the taghut Khomeini, while armed with automatic weapons, hand grenades, and explosive vests. They succeeded in killing and injuring nearly 60 murtaddin before attaining shahadah . Janub Wilayah On the 14th of Ramadan, the istishhadi Abu Fahd al-‘Iraqi  set out towards the Rafidi mushrikin in the defiled city of Karbala, where he detonated his explosive vest in their midst, killing 30 of them and injuring 35 others. Meanwhile, the istishhadi Abu Mujahid al-Basri  set out and detonated his explosive vest on another gathering of murtaddin in the city of Babil, killing 37 of them and injuring 40 others. Ninawa Wilayah On the 19th of Ramadan, the soldiers of the Khilafah attacked the positions of the Rafidi Federal Police in the areas of Dawwasah and Nabi Shith, and on Halab Street in western Mosul. Fierce clashes took place, during the course of which 40 murtaddin were killed, among them an officer ranked colonel, and a number of others were wounded. Six Humvees and two troop carriers were also burned, and the mujahidin captured new positions. The soldiers of the Khilafah also attacked Rafidi Federal Police positions in the neighborhood of Dandan towards the south of Mosul. Fierce confrontations took place that led to dozens of murtaddin being killed and wounded, and the rest fleeing. The mujahidin destroyed 12 military vehicles, captured the murtaddin’s positions, and took weapons and ammo as ghanimah. On the 1st of Shawwal, the soldiers of the Khilafah launched a wide scale attack from several axes on Rafidi militia positions in the neighborhoods of Tanak, Yarmuk, Mashahidah, Shifa, and Nabi Shith, and on Halab Street and Corniche Street, and on the outskirts of the areas of Bab at-Tub, Bab Jadid, Bab al- Bayd, and Bab Lakash. Clashes took place that led to a number of murtaddin being killed and wounded, with the rest fleeing. The mujahidin captured the neighborhood of Tanak and most of the neighborhood of Yarmuk, as well as parts of the neighborhood of Shifa and the area of Mashahidah, with reports that the Rafidi army was burning its positions and vehicles in the neighborhoods of Tall ar-Rumman, Rajm Hadid, and Wadi Hajar in the midst of a massive breakdown in their ranks towards the west of Mosul. Palestine On the 21st of Ramadan, a group of Islamic State soldiers – Abul-Bara al-Maqdisi, Abul-Hasan al-Maqdisi, and Abu Rih al-Maqdisi  – carried out a blessed operation in the city of Quds. They assaulted the enemies of Allah in revenge for His religion and for the sanctities of the Muslims that had been violated, and attacked the gatherings of the filthy Jews. The attack resulted in a female recruit being killed and a number of others being wounded, with the mujahidin attaining shahadah. Salahuddin Wilayah On the 21st of Ramadan, five knights of shahadah – Abul-Faqih ash-Shami, Abul-Walid ash-Shami, Abu Mu’adh al-Karbuli, Abu ‘Adnan as-Salmani, and Abu ‘Umar al-Farraji  – carried out an inghimasi operation targeting the Rafidi Federal Police “Liwa al-‘Askariyyin” regiment base in the area of Jubayriyah in the city of Samarra. They clashed with the personnel present at the base for approximately two hours, leading to all of the murtaddin being killed. The inghimasiyyin then clashed with a reinforcement unit that arrived in the area and succeeded in killing and injuring a number of them. Two of the inghimasiyyin were killed, and the remaining three detonated their explosive vests on the murtaddin. The blessed attack led to 38 murtaddin being killed, 10 others being wounded, the base and one of the weapons storage facilities being destroyed, and several military vehicles being burned and disabled. On the 26th of Ramadan, eight soldiers of the Khilafah carried out an inghimasi attack targeting Rafidi Mobilization positions in the village of Salam northwest of Takrit. They clashed with the murtaddin and detonated their explosive vests on them, killing and injuring approximately 60 of them and burning 7 vehicles mounted with machine guns. Khurasan Wilayah On the 20th of Ramadan, the istishhadi Abu ‘Aishah al-Khurasani  entered a Rafidi temple in the city of Kabul and opened fire on the mushrikin using a handgun he was carrying with him. He then detonated his explosive vest in their midst, killing at least 17 of them and injuring dozens more. On the 28th of Ramadan, the istishhadi Abu ‘Uthman al-Khurasani  detonated his explosive vest on a gathering of the murtadd Pakistani police in the city of Quetta, killing and injuring approximately 30 murtaddin. France On the 24th of Ramadan, a soldier of the Khilafah – Abu Maysun al-Faransi  – drove his vehicle, which was loaded with weapons and explosives, and crashed it into a van belonging to the Crusader French police in the city of Paris, spreading terror among the Crusaders once more and reminding them that the battle has come to their homeland. Belgium On the 25th of Ramadan, a soldier of the Khilafah – Usamah Zaryuh  – carried out an attack on the Crusaders inside the central train station in the city of Brussels. Anbar Wilayah On the 28th of Ramadan, four soldiers of the Khilafah – Abu Kawthar as-Sudani, Abu Sayf ash-Shami, Abu Rahmah al-Anbari, and Abu Muhammad al-‘Iraqi  – set out shortly before fajr towards Rafidi army and Sahwah positions in the city of Baghdadi towards the west of Anbar. They assaulted the murtaddin and clashed with them for several hours until they exhausted their supply of ammo, following which they successively detonated their explosive vests, leading to approximately 40 murtaddin being killed and dozens more being wounded. Among those wounded was the murtadd Shurahbil al-‘Ubaydi, who served as the director of the district of Baghdadi, as well as the head of the commando regiment, and the murtadd Lieutenant Colonel Kamal al-‘Ubaydi, commander of the 4th Regiment. Somalia On the 1st of Shawwal, two murtadd Somali soldiers were killed as a result of clashes with the soldiers of the Khilafah in the area of Jarur east of the territory of Puntland. Raqqah Wilayah On the 5th of Shawwal, a number of Islamic State soldiers carried out an assault on PKK positions in the industrial district, and in the neighborhood of Mashlab, and near the Barazi roundabout, and near Ittihad University. Fierce clashes took place between the soldiers of the Khilafah and the PKK that lasted for several hours and resulted in 30 murtaddin being killed, in addition to a number of others being wounded. Meanwhile, sniper units targeted the murtaddin in the neighborhoods of Rumaniyyah and Jazarah, and also near the Furusiyyah and Barazi roundabouts, leading to 12 murtaddin being killed and three others being wounded.