All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the creation. May blessings and peace be upon the most noble of the messengers, and upon his family and all his companions. As for what follows. Indeed, the lying, government scholars have resorted to distorting the fiqh of jihad, just as they distorted the tawhid with which the prophets and messengers had come. They have made the People of the Scripture, the Majus, and the mushrikin out to be the brothers and allies of the Muslims. They sought to reconcile between the religions and to make them all one, so they declared – through their books and fatwas – that the blood and wealth of these disbelievers was impermissible to violate. The condition of these scholars is like that of the Jews about whom Allah  said, “Among the Jews are those who distort words from their [proper] usages” (An-Nisa 46). Killing the kuffar in their own lands or stealing their wealth are among the issues widely discussed by the fuqaha. However, these taghut scholars promoted the fiqh of pacifism, strove to erase these issues from the religion of Islam, replace them with the manhaj of humiliation and subservience to the kuffar, and subjugate the people to the new religion they had established, which was built on the foundation of “the peaceful co-existence of all religions,” the solidification of “the principles of Islam,” pacifism, and the abolishment of jihad. Suddenly, you find many of those who associate themselves with knowledge and Islam almost agreeing on prohibiting a matter on whose permissibility the Ummah previously had ijma’. And this wouldn’t be strange if we were to reflect on the statement made by Anas Ibn Malik  when az-Zuhri entered upon him in Dimashq and said to him, “What is it that is making you weep?” So Anas said, “I could not recognize anything [of the acts of worship] that I had come to witness except for the prayer, and now even the prayer has been lost” (Reported by al-Bukhari). So how would it be if he were to have reached our era, in which clear rulings in the Book of Allah, the sunnah of Allah’s Messenger g, and the ijma’ of the Salaf have been wiped out? And among the rulings that have been done away with is the ruling on the blood and wealth of the harbi (belligerent) kuffar, and the fact that their blood does not have ‘ismah (protection from being violated) except through their embracing of Islam or through a covenant that is valid in the Shari’ah, and as such, it is permitted for the Muslim to shed their blood and take their wealth as he wishes, in accordance with the example of the Prophet g and his noble companions . But you find today that the scholars and the callers to misguidance criticize the muwahhidin and accuse them of distorting the image of Islam on account of the very deeds that were carried out by the Sahabah, such as Abu Basir and Abu Jandal . And at the same time, you do not hear from them a single word when their masters from among the tawaghit of the West and the East loot the wealth of the Muslims. And indeed, the Islamic State has taken it upon its shoulders to wage jihad against the enemies of this religion – from among the kuffar and murtaddin – with sword and spear, and with proofs and clarifications until the religion is entirely for Allah and until there returns the Muslims their religion, clear and pure, as it had been before. Allah  said, “And fight them until there is no fitnah and [until] the religion, all of it, is for Allah. And if they cease - then indeed, Allah is Seeing of what they do” (Al-Anfal 39). In this article, we will clarify the ruling on the wealth of the harbi kuffar in their lands, and demonstrate that what is taken from them can include that which is ghanimah, that which is fay, and that which is talassus and ihtitab (wealth taken through fraud and deception). We will also mention the statements of some scholars on this subject and respond to some misconceptions. Likewise, we will not miss the opportunity to mention some of the benefits of taking their wealth in the framework of the comprehensive war between the Khilafah state and the nations of kufr altogether. And it is Allah who grants success and who guides to the straight path. The Blood and Wealth of the Harbi Kafir Is Permissible to Violate The default with regards to the blood and wealth of the harbi kuffar is that it does not have ‘ismah. The scholars have an ijma’ that the ruling of Allah concerning the harbi kuffar is that neither their blood nor their wealth has ‘ismah. Rather, both their blood and wealth are permissible for the Muslims. Imam Ibn Taymiyyah  said, “And kufr alongside muharabah (belligerence) is present in every kafir, so it is permitted to enslave him just as it is permitted to kill him” (Majmu’ al-Fatawa). And indeed, the harbi kuffar – according to the terminology of the fuqaha – are not only those kuffar who are at war with the Muslims. Rather, the harbi kuffar include all those to whom the Muslims have not granted security, either with a dhimmah contract, a covenant of security, or a ceasefire treaty, regardless of whether they are soldiers enlisted in the military, or non-combatants and others from among the common masses of the kuffar. Their blood and wealth is permissible for the Muslims, and this ruling encompasses all mushrikin everywhere. Allah  said, “Then kill the polytheists wherever you find them and capture them and besiege them and sit in wait for them at every place of ambush. But if they should repent, establish prayer, and give zakah, let them [go] on their way. Indeed, Allah is Forgiving and Merciful” (At-Tawbah 5). He  also said, “But if they repent, establish prayer, and give zakah, then they are your brothers in religion” (At-Tawbah 11). So the reason that their blood has been made permissible is their committing of shirk. Therefore, if they repent from shirk, their blood is protected. Ibn Qudamah said, “There is no qisas (punishment of retribution) for one who kills a harbi kafir, due to the statement of Allah , ‘Then kill the polytheists wherever you find them’ (At-Tawbah), nor for the one who kills a murtadd. And because he (i.e. the murtadd) is one whose blood is permissible to shed, he is more resembling of the harbi kafir” (Al-Kafi fi Fiqh al-Imam Ahmad). And in the Sunnah, Ibn ‘Umar  narrated that Allah’s Messenger g said, “I have been commanded to fight the people until they bear witness that there is no god but Allah and that Muhammad is the Messenger of Allah, and until they establish the prayer and pay the zakah. If they do that, they have protected their blood and their wealth from me except by a right of Islam, and their reckoning is upon Allah” (Reported by al-Bukhari and Muslim). So there is no ‘ismah for blood and wealth except by entering into Islam. Imam at-Tabari  said, “The ijma’ is that the ruling of Allah on the harbi mushrikin is that they are to be killed” (Jami’ al-Bayan fi Tawil al-Quran). Imam ash-Shafi’i said concerning that which gives ‘ismah to the blood of the kuffar, “Allah  made the blood and wealth of the kafir permissible, unless he pays the jizyah or is given a covenant of security for a period of time” (Al-Umm by ash-Shafi’i). He  also said with regards to the one granted a covenant of security, “The covenant which I described as being for an indefinate period of time can only be given for a finite period of time and is given to the mu’ahid himself (the one seeking the covenant). As long as he upholds the covenant, it is applicable to him, but if he withdraws from it he becomes a harbi whose blood and wealth are permissible” (Al-Umm). Dar al-Kufr Is a Land of “Ibahah” Dar al-Harb – or Dar al-Kufr – is a land of “ibahah” (i.e. a land where the blood and wealth of its inhabitants are permissible to violate), and this is based on what was previously presented as evidence that committing shirk with Allah  renders one’s blood and wealth permissible, and as such, the blood and wealth of the kuffar are permissible for the Muslims. Imam ash Shafi’i said  said in his book, al-Umm, “The land [of dar al-harb] is permissible [for a Muslim to violate blood and wealth therein] because it is a land of shirk.” Al-Jassas al-Hanafi said, “Anything that is in dar al-harb is not a valid possession, because it is a land of ibahah and the wealth of its inhabitants is permissible” (Ahkam al-Quran). Ibn Abi Zayd al-Qayrawani al Maliki said, “Sahnun said, ‘And if a people in dar al-harb embrace Islam, it is permissible for them to kill whoever they can and take their wealth’” (An-Nawadir waz-Ziyadat). Shaykh Hamd Ibn ‘Atiq said, “And those who have shared in the opinions of the scholars known for extensively researching issues have no doubt read that if shirk emerges in a given land, the forbidden matters are openly practiced there, and the symbols of the religion are undone therein, that land becomes a land of kufr, the wealth of its people is taken as ghanimah, and their blood is rendered permissible” (Ad-Durar as-Saniyyah fil-Ajwibat an-Najdiyyah). The Wealth of the Kuffar Is Either Ghanimah, Fay, or Ihtitab Imam Ibn Taymiyyah  said, “As for ghanimah, it is wealth that is taken from the kuffar through fighting” (Majmu’ al-Fatawa). Allah has permitted ghanimah for the Muslims. He  said, “So consume what you have taken of war booty [as being] lawful and good, and fear Allah. Indeed, Allah is Forgiving and Merciful” (Al-Anfal 69). And in the Sahihayn, Jabir Ibn ‘Abdillah  narrated that the Prophet g said, “I have been given five things which none has been given before me: I have been aided with terror for the distance of one month’s march, and the earth has been made a place of prayer and a means of purification for me, so let any man from my ummah whom the prayer has reached pray [wherever he is], and ghanimah has been permitted for me and was not permitted for anyone before me, and I have been granted intercession, and a prophet would be sent to his people specifically whereas I have been sent to all of mankind.” As for fay, “It is that which is taken from the kuffar without any fighting” (Majmu’ al-Fatawa). Allah  said, “And what Allah granted as fay to His Messenger from among them – you did not spur for it [in an expedition] any horses or camels” (Al-Hashr 6). As for ihtitab or talassus, it is to plunder the wealth of the kuffar through fraud and deception, and it is wealth that is permissible if one does not explicitly grant security to them. There is no legitimate difference of opinion among the scholars concerning its permissibility. However, they difffered as to whether it is to be regarded as ghanimah, or merely as permissible income that is specific to the one who takes it. The Scholars’ Opinions on What Is Subject to Khums from the Wealth of Ihtitab Talassus occurs with a raid that takes place either with or without the permission of the imam, and with or without the presence of a strong force. It also occurs without a raid taking place, as in the case of the talassus carried out by a prisoner after he becomes free, or talassus carried out by a merchant through a sale transaction or by denying a person his wealth, or talassus carried out by one who embraces Islam in dar alharb. In each of these cases there are details mentioned by the scholars with regards to what is subject to the khums and what is not. Firstly: Talassus Accompanied by a Raid The majority of the scholars hold that if either one Muslim or a group of Muslims who comprise a force of strength carry out a raid in dar al-harb and take wealth by force or through deception, this wealth is subject to the khums. The majority did not specify a certain number of people as a condition for strength to be achieved. Imam al-Baghawi ash-Shafi’i  said, “Regardless of whether they are few or many in number, the khums belongs to those who have a right to the khums and the remaining wealth belongs to them (i.e. those who took the wealth from the kuffar). Even if it were just one man who entered dar al-harb, fought a harbi, and took from him some wealth, that wealth would be subject to khums and what remained after subtracting the khums would be his” (At-Tahdhib fi Fiqh al-Imam ash-Shafi’i). As for the Hanafis, Abu Yusuf placed a condition that it must be nine Muslims or more before the wealth is subject to khums because that is the number by which strength is achieved. As for individual Muslims [less than nine in number] carrying out raids, the Hanafis did not view the wealth they take as being subject to khums, and instead considered it to be a permissible form of income, unless the one carrying out the raid on dar al-harb did so with the permission of the imam, as in that case he would be reinforced with the strength of the imam and as such, he would take the ruling of a sariyyah (detachment of troops). Secondly: Carrying Out a Raid or Talassus with or without the Imam’s Permission The majority of scholars did not differentiate between those who have the permission of the imam and those who don’t, and they held the opinion that regardless of whether one heads out with or without the imam’s permission and then takes the wealth of the kuffar, that wealth is subject to khums. Imam al-Baghawi ash-Shafi’i  said, “And if a group carries out a raid without the imam’s permission, it is disliked, because if they were to head out with his permission he would look into their circumstances and send them aid. So if they do it without his permission and they take ghanimah, what they take as ghanimah is subject to khums” (At-Tahdhib fi Fiqh al-Imam ash-Shafi’i). Abu Muhammad ath-Tha’labi al-Baghdadi al-Maliki said, “And whoever enters dar al-harb alone to steal wealth and subsequently obtains ghanimah, the khums is taken from it, and Malik made no distinction between him entering with or without the imam’s permission” (‘Uyun al-Masail by al-Qadi ‘Abdul-Wahhab al-Maliki). This is the opinion of the majority, and it is one of the opinions reported from Imam Ahmad. In mentioning the opinion reported from Imam Ahmad, Ibn Qudamah said, “That their ghanimah is like the ghanimah of anyone else: The imam takes the khums from it and divides the rest among them. And this is the statement of most of the scholars – including ash-Shafi’i – due to the general nature of Allah’s  statement, ‘And know that anything you obtain of war booty – then indeed, for Allah is one fifth of it’ (Al-Anfal 41)... to the end of the ayah. And qiyas is made based on [the ruling that would apply] if they were to have entered with the imam’s permission” (Al-Mughni by Ibn Qudamah). As for the Hanafis, they differentiated between those who have the imam’s permission and those who do not. Abu Yusuf said, “I asked Abu Hanifah, saying, ‘What is your opinion in the case of one or two men who go out from the city or the country, carry out a raid in dar al-harb, and obtain ghanimah? Is what they obtained subject to the khums?’ He said, ‘What they obtained is not subject to the khums because these two men can be compared to a thief with regards to what they’ve obtained, so it belongs to them.’ I said, ‘But if the imam sends a man from the military camp as a vanguard and he obtains ghanimah, is it subject to the khums, with the remainder being divided between him and the soldiers in the camp?’ He said, ‘Yes.’ I said, ‘But what’s the difference between this man and the other two men?’ He said, ‘Because this man was sent by the imam from the military camp, and the military camp is a means of support for him, whereas the other two men did not come from the military camp. They only came out of the city or the country, voluntarily, and without the imam’s permission’” (As-Siyar as-Saghir). This opinion is one of the opinions reported from Imam Ahmad. In mentioning this other opinion reported from Imam Ahmad, Ibn Qudamah said, “It belongs to them without being subject to the khums.” This is the opinion of Abu Hanifah, because it is a permissible form of income obtained without jihad, so for them it was comparable with ihtitab (gathering wood), for jihad is only carried out with the permission of the imam, or by a group that has strength. As for this, it is robbery and theft, and it is merely the obtainment of income” (Al-Mughni). There is a third opinion, and it has also one of the opinions reported from Imam Ahmad. It is that they have no right to it, and that in fact it belongs to the Muslims, because they are sinning by heading out without the imam’s permission. Ibn Qudamah said, “With regards to a slave that flees to the Romans and then returns and has goods with him, Ahmad said, ‘The slave belongs to his master, and what is with him of goods and wealth belongs to the Muslims, because [such slaves] have committed a sin with this deed of theirs, so they have no right to it (i.e. the goods)’” (Al-Mughni). Thirdly: The Talassus of a Merchant, or a Prisoner Who Has Become Free and Resides in Dar al-Kufr, or One Who Embraces Islam There Anyone who examines the difference of opinion among the scholars concerning this issue will find that from among the reasons for wealth being subject to the khums is that it is taken by force and with fighting, and this is a condition stipulated for ghanimah. Likewise, another reason is the permission of the imam, as it is referred to as jihad when one fights behind him. As for anything other than that, the scholars have not included it in the category of what is referred to as ghanimah, and have instead referred to it as a permissible form of income, comparable to hunting or gathering wood, and this is like the case of talassus carried out by a merchant, or a prisoner who has become free, or a Muslim who resides among the kuffar, or one who embraces Islam in dar al-harb, and the evidence for this is what Imam at-Tabari  reported in his tafsir from Salim Ibn Abil-Ja’d concerning the tafsir of Allah’s  statement, “And whoever fears Allah - He will make for him a way out” (At-Talaq 2). Salim said, “It was revealed concerning a man from [the tribe of] Ashja’ who was afflicted by hardship. So he came to the Prophet g, who said to him, ‘Fear Allah and have patience.’ So he went back, and then found his son, who had been taken prisoner by the enemy. Allah had liberated him from them and he took some of their goats [when he escaped]. So he came and mentioned this to Allah’s Messenger g and said, ‘Is it okay for me, O Messenger of Allah?’ So he said, ‘Yes’” (Jami’ al-Bayan fi Tawil al-Quran). So this Muslim prisoner took these goats after escaping from them, and the Prophet g did not subject them to the khums because they were obtained in dar al-harb, outside of Muslims’ area of authority, without any fighting and without his g permission, so he didn’t consider it ghanimah. For this reason, the condition for wealth to be considered ihtitab is that it be taken in dar al-harb without the imam’s permission. And this ruling is actualized in the case of a merchant if he steals wealth in dar al-harb. Imam al-Baghawi  said, “And if he were to enter dar al-harb and take something from a harbi by way of a sale transaction, and then denied him his wealth and fled, [that wealth] belongs specifically to him and is not subject to the khums” (At-Tahdhib fi Fiqh al-Imam ash-Shafi’i). And it is the same ruling in the case of those who reside in dar al-harb and have not explicitly granted the kuffar security, and likewise those who embrace Islam in dar al-harb and then steal from the kuffar. This is due to the conditions that were present in the case of the one who took the goats in the time of the Prophet g, and there is no evidence for those who say that this wealth that was taken from the kuffar is subject to the khums. Ibn Abi Zayd al-Qayrawani said, “Sahnun said, ‘And if a people embrace Islam in dar al-harb, it is permissible for them to kill whoever they can and take their wealth’” (An-Nawadir waz-Ziyadat). And there is no difference with regards to the owner of the wealth, so one can steal the wealth of a man, a woman, or a child from among the kuffar. How the Wealth Taken from the Harbi Kuffar Is to be Divided Ghanimah: Allah  said, “And know that anything you obtain of war booty – then indeed, for Allah is one fifth of it and for the Messenger and for [his] near relatives and the orphans, the needy, and the [stranded] traveler, if you have believed in Allah and in that which We sent down to Our Servant on the day of criterion – the day when the two armies met. And Allah, over all things, is competent” (Al-Anfal 41). So four-fifths of the ghanimah go to the mujahidin who took that ghanimah, and the remaining one-fifth goes to the categories of people mentioned in the ayah of ghanimah in Surat Al-Anfal. Ibn ‘Umar and Ibn Abbas  both narrated, saying, “Allah’s Messenger g would divide the khums into five portions,” meaning, the remaining one-fifth would be divided into five portions. Imam Ahmad said, “The khums belonging to Allah and His Messenger is one [portion], and for the near relatives one portion – and they are the relatives of the Prophet g, those being the tribes of Bani Hashim and Bani al-Muttalib, as the Prophet g did not divide this portion except among them – and for the orphans one portion, and for the needy one portion, and for travelers one portion” (Masail Ahmad Ibn Hanbal Riwayat Ibnihi ‘Abdillah). What the Portion of Allah and His Messenger g Is Spent On: The portion of Allah and His Messenger g – accordnig to the correct opinion – is fay that is spent on horses, weapons, and the interests of the Muslims. Ibn Qudamah said, “Allah only attributed it to Himself and His Messenger so that it be known that what concerns him is the maslahah (the Muslims’ interests), and that this is not specific to the Prophet g such that it comes to an end with his death” (Al-Mughni by Ibn Qudamah). Fay: Allah  clarified that which fay is to be spent on in Surat Al-Hashr: “And what Allah granted to His Messenger of fay from the people of the towns – it is for Allah and for the Messenger and for [his] near relatives and orphans and the [stranded] traveler – so that it will not be a perpetual distribution among the rich from among you. And whatever the Messenger has given you – take; and what he has forbidden you – refrain from. And fear Allah; indeed, Allah is severe in penalty. For the poor emigrants who were expelled from their homes and their properties, seeking bounty from Allah and [His] approval and supporting Allah and His Messenger, [there is also a share]. Those are the truthful. And [also for] those who were settled in Madinah and [adopted] the faith before them. They love those who emigrated to them and find not any want in their breasts of what the emigrants were given but give [them] preference over themselves, even though they are in privation. And whoever is protected from the stinginess of his soul – it is those who will be the successful. And [there is a share for] those who came after them, saying, ‘Our Lord, forgive us and our brothers who preceded us in faith and put not in our hearts [any] resentment toward those who have believed. Our Lord, indeed You are Kind and Merciful’” (Al-Hashr 7-10). The scholars differed as to whether or not fay is subject to the khums, and the reason for their difference of opinion is that the seventh ayah of Surat Al-Hashr mentions the same categories of people whom Allah  mentioned in the ayah of ghanimah in Surat Al-Anfal. So a group of scholars took what was apparent from the ayah, despite the fact that Allah  did not mention the khums as He did in the ayah of Al-Anfal. Another group of scholars took the opinion of ‘Umar , who read the statement of Allah  in the verses mentioned above and said, “These [verses] have encompassed all the Muslims.” So these verses are mentioned for the purpose of clarifying the encompassing nature of the ruling not for the purpose of specifying that these categories of people receive the khums. Ibn Qudamah stated in al-Kafi, “What is apparent in the [Hanbali] madhhab is that it is not subject to the khums, due to the statement of Allah , ‘And what Allah restored [of property] to His Messenger from them - you did not spur for it [in an expedition] any horses or camels’ (Al-Hashr 6)... to the end of the related verses that follow. So He made it entirely for all of the Muslims. ‘Umar  said when he read these verses, ‘These [verses] have encompassed all the Muslims, and if I were to live long, I would see a shepherd in the valley of [the tribe of] Himyar who received his share from the fay without having to sweat for it’” (Al-Kafi fi Fiqh al-Imam Ahmad). However, Ibn Qudamah himself took the opinion that the fay is subject to the khums, so one-fifth of the fay belongs to those whom Allah  mentioned in the ayah of ghanimah and fay, and the remaining fourfifths of the fay belong to all the Muslims in the order he mentioned in his book, al-Kafi. He said, “It begins with the most important, and then the next most important. And the most important of interests is to suffice the armies of the Muslims with respect to their sustenance, and to man the frontiers with the numbers required, and to suffice them concerning their means of sustenance, and to build anything that needs to be built, and to dig trenches, and to purchase anything needed of riding animals and weapons, and then what’s next important and then next important, including the building of arches, roads, and masajid, the digging of canals, [the building of dams for] stopping floods, and [the financing of] the sustenance of judges, imams, muadhdhins, and others whom the Muslims are in need of, as well as anything else that brings benefit to the Muslims. And whatever is left over is divided among the Muslims, due to what we have mentioned of the ayah and the statement of ‘Umar ” (Al-Kafi fi Fiqh al-Imam Ahmad). Granting Security There is no difference of opinion that dar al-harb is a land of ibahah, and that the blood and wealth of the harbi kuffar have no ‘ismah, and that contracts of dhimmah and covenants of security prohibit their blood from being shed. With regards to the mu’ahadin – those kuffar who have a covenant of security or a ceasefire treaty with the Muslims, if the conditions stipulated in such contracts are fulfilled, it is an obligation to uphold these commitments and contracts, and this is an ijma’, and there is no difference of opinion concerning it. Allah’s Messenger g said, “Whoever kills a mu’ahad (a kafir under a security covenant, a ceasefire treaty, or a dhimmah contract) will not smell the fragrance of Jannah. And indeed, its fragrance is found from a distance of 40 years of marching” (Reported by al-Bukhari). A covenant of security granted by a Muslim to a mushrik makes it binding on the Muslims to withhold their hands from that mushrik, in accordance with the agreed upon hadith which states that ‘Ali  said, “Allah’s Messenger g said, ‘The Muslims are united concerning their covenants – the least among them endeavors to uphold them. So whoever betrays a Muslim, upon him is the curse of Allah, the angels, and all of mankind, and nothing will be accepted from him” (Reported by al-Bukhari), and also in accordance with the narration of ‘Ali  that the Prophet g said, “The believers are equal with regards to their blood, they are one hand against all others, and the least among them endeavors to uphold their covenant. A believer is not to be killed [in retribution] for [the killing of] a kafir, nor one who has a covenant that is still valid” (Reported by Ahmad, Abu Dawud, and an-Nasai). Ibn Hisham said, “Abu ‘Ubaydah narrated to me that when Abul-‘As Ibn ar-Rabi’ came from Sham and had with him the wealth of the mushrikin, it was said to him, ‘Why don’t you embrace Islam and then take this wealth [for yourself] as it is the wealth of the mushrikin?’ So Abul-‘As said, ‘How evil it would be for me to begin my Islam by betraying my trust’” (Sirat Ibn Hisham). And it was reported that Mughirah Ibn Shu’bah had accompanied a group of people in his jahiliyyah, and then killed them and took their wealth. He then came and embraced Islam. So the Prophet g said, “As for your Islam, I accept it, and as for the wealth, I have nothing to do with it” (Reported by al-Bukhari). Ibnul-Qayyim said, “With regards to the Prophet’s g statement to Mughirah, ‘As for your Islam, I accept it, and as for the wealth, I have nothing to do with it,’ in it there is evidence that the wealth of the mu’ahad mushrik has ‘ismah, and that it is not to be taken possession of. Rather, it is to be returned to him, for Mughirah had accompanied them on the basis of granting them security and then betrayed them and took their wealth, so the Prophet g did not take this wealth of theirs, nor did he defend it [as being permissible]. Nor did he guarantee it for them (i.e. he did not seek to ensure that it be returned to its rightful owners) because that was before Mughirah’s embracing of Islam” (Zad al-Ma’ad fi Hadyi Khayril-‘Ibad). Using Certain Terms for Deception Is Not Counted as Granting a Covenant and Then Betraying It And this is the deed of ‘Abdullah Ibn Unays and Muhammad Ibn Maslamah , for Muhammad Ibn Maslamah did not grant security to Ka’b Ibn al-Ashraf. Rather, he led him to believe that he hated living with the Prophet g and tricked him with that. He had previously sought the Prophet’s g permission to say something [concerning the Prophet g that could be understood negatively], and the Prophet g gave him permission for that. And among what he said, as per al- Bukhari, was, “Indeed, this man has asked us for charity, and he has exhausted us (it can also mean he has educated us concerning the teachings of the Shari’ah that can exhaust an individual, but it is exhaustion for the sake of seeking Allah’s pleasure), and I have come to you to seek a loan from you.” Ka’b said, “And by Allah, you will also become weary of him.” So Muhamd Ibn Maslamah said, “We have followed him, so we do not want to leave him until we see which way his affair goes.” So his statement “he has exhausted us” means that the Sahabah  gave bay’ah to the Prophet g, pledging to bear the hardships they face after giving him bay’ah, for they know what awaits them of tribulations, hardships, and difficulties in the path of Allah. However, he tricked him with this phrase and made a request of him so that Ka’b would feel reassured with him and he could then kill him. Likewise is the case with the statement of ‘Abdullah Ibn Unays to Khalid al-Hudhali: “It has reached me that you are gathering men against this man, so I have come to you concerning that.” So his statement can carry more than one meaning. With the phrase “concerning that” he can mean either that he wants to support him or that he wants to kill him. Based on this, deceiving someone through one’s statements and actions and then killing them or taking their wealth is not considered treachery if one was not explicit in granting that person security, for the granting of security is an act of making a contract between two parties – the one granting security and the one being granted security – using clear and explicit terms, not actions and statements that simply mislead the one being addressed into believing that he has been granted security. The granting of security using explicit terms is something concerning which there is no difference of opinion among the fuqaha. As for the usage of terms that are not explicit, there is a difference of opinion in that regard. Among the scholars are those who count certain actions or statements as having granted security, and among them are those who do not. And it is not strange to find one scholar including a certain issue under the category of treachery and another including it under the category of trickery and deception in war. Overall, the sub-topics that are categorized under the granting of security using non-explicit terms don’t have any guidelines in common that the scholars have agreed on, and categorizing a sub-topic under a specific principle is a matter of ijtihad in which it is acceptable for there to be a difference of opinion, so it is not appropriate to be stubborn or to bring the issue outside of its realm. Entry Visas for Dar al-Harb Do Not Give ‘Ismah to the Blood and Wealth of the Kuffar The default ruling concerning the blood and wealth of the harbi kuffar is that it is permissible and does not have ‘ismah, so if we were to dispute concerning any scenario and differ as to whether or not it entails granting security, and the evidences for our opinions were equal or close to one another in strength, we would return to the default ruling, which dictates that the blood and wealth of the kuffar are permissible unless there is evidence that supports the existence of a valid preventative factor, because ijma’ brings certainty and differing brings doubt, and certainty cannot be removed by doubt, and because in such a case the granting of security would be a preventative factor that carries doubt, and having doubt in a preventative factor does not nullify a ruling established by a known reason. And there is no doubt that it is permissible to deceive the kuffar in war, and this would be accomplished by lying and through the usage of ambiguous statements that are not explicit. The summary is that if wealth no longer has ‘ismah due to the owner’s kufr – such as in the case of the harbi kafir – it becomes permissible to take it using any means possible, and there is no difference of opinion on this in principle, unless the kafir is granted security. And it is permissible for the Muslims to commit deception when stealing wealth from harbi kuffar wherever they are and however they are found, and it has not been established through any shar’i evidence nor through any cultural norms that entry visas are contracts or that they entail the granting of security. Rather, an entry visa is permission to enter the land, and permission to enter does not entail the granting of security. And a man does not have security in his land while some people of those lands don’t have security from one another, and one party granting security does not entail the other party also granting security. Ibn Abi Zayd al-Qayrawani said, “And if they mention to the king that they are Muslims and he says, ‘You are safe,’ but they do not grant him security and don’t say anything to him, and this doesn’t circulate in the land such that the people of the land know that they have safety, then it is permissible for these ones to kill and take as much as they want. And this is likewise the case if he says to them, ‘I grant you security, so go to the land of Islam,’ and they do not say anything to him, then they can also do as much as possible of killing and other than that, and then leave dar al-harb... Some of the scholars of Iraq said, ‘If a Muslim enters dar al-harb without a covenant of security and says, ‘I am one of you,’ or he says, ‘I have come to fight alongside you,’ and they leave him alone as a result, then he can take whatever he can get and kill whoever he is able to, and his statement does not entail granting them security from himself’” (An-Nawadir waz-Ziyadat). And whoever enters dar al-harb using documents that are forged, or those that are authentic and which establish his religion and personal information, it is permissible for him to kill them and take their wealth if that is easy for him, because this does not represent the granting of security, for ‘Amr Ibn Umayyah claimed to be from the tribe of Bani Bakr and offered one of the mushrikin some misleading information – with which he tricked him – so he thought he was a mushrik and was reassured concerning him. Then when he went to sleep, he killed him. So if the forged documents suggest that the person carrying them is from that country, it is not considered as granting security, neither according to cultural norms, nor according to the Shari’ah. And if the forged documents suggest that he is not from that country but has permission to enter, as is the case with forged documents, then this is not considered as granting security because it is from the deceptions of war. And there is nothing stronger than the action of the Sahabah – Muhammad Ibn Maslamah and his group – and this resembles the act of associating oneself to dar al-harb or to its kafir inhabitants, and also resembles the act of seeking refuge in their lands, or spending the night in their territory with them, so it is not considered as a Muslim granting security to those kafir nations. And spending the night with those whom you intend to kill is not considered as granting security, as was the case with the Sahabi, ‘Amr Ibn Umayyah ad-Dumari , and with the case of Muhammad Ibn Maslamah , who entered the fortress of the Jews and then deceived and killed Ka’b Ibn al-Ashraf. So the mujahid’s entering into dar al-harb by way of seeking refuge there is similar to the actions of the Sahabah, as long as it does not entail kufri matters and contracts. Inciting the Muslims to Take the Wealth of the Kuffar and Wage Jihad with It When the Prophet g performed hijrah to Madinah, the source of his provision was ghanimah, and it is the best source of provision, for the wealth that is taken from the kuffar by force is more pure than that which a man obtains in any other way. Allah  said, “So consume what you have taken of war booty [as being] lawful and good, and fear Allah. Indeed, Allah is Forgiving and Merciful” (Al-Anfal 69). Ibnul-Qayyim said, “What is correct is that the most halal of income is that from which came the provision of Allah’s Messenger g, this being income from ghanimah and that which had been permitted for them by the words of the Law-Giver. And this income has been praised in the Quran more than any other, and its people have been praised in ways that others have not, and for this reason Allah chose it for the best of His creation and the seal of His prophets and messengers, who said, ‘I was sent with the sword before the Hour, until Allah is worshiped alone and without partner, and my provision has been placed in the shadow of my spear, and humiliation and lowliness has been placed upon those who oppose my command.’ And it is the provision that is taken with strength and dignity, by subduing the enemies of Allah, and it is the most beloved thing to Allah, so no other type of income can compare with it. And Allah knows best” (Zad al- Ma’ad). Some Muslims today may not like taking the wealth of the kuffar by force and may feel that the wealth they obtain doing other work is better, and this is incorrect, for the best of halal according to the text of the Quran is ghanimah, and it was the provision of the Prophet g after his hijrah to Madinah. Allah created this wealth for the sons of Adam so they could use it to aid them in obeying Him and worshiping Him, so if anyone uses it to aid him in disbelieving in Allah and committing shirk with Him, Allah gives power to the Muslims over him and they take it from him and return it to those who have more right to it – those who worship Allah, obey Him, and practice tawhid. For this reason it was named “fay,” due to it returning to those who have more right to it and for whom it was created. And it is a must on every muwahhid to expand the scope of his jihad to include waging war on the kuffar’s wealth – for the war on wealth and economies represents the largest of the arenas of jihad – as was done by the Prophet g in many raids, where he would take the wealth of the kuffar and destroy their property. And there is no doubt that the kuffar today use their wealth to mobilize their armies and their capabilities, so it is upon the muwahhidin to discover and conceive new methods of weakening the kuffar’s economies and taking or destroying their wealth. And it is upon the Muslims – specifically those who reside in dar al-kufr and cannot find a way to make hijrah – to do what Abu Basir  did to the mushrikin of Makkah. And there is no doubt that exhausting the wealth of the kuffar today has a major impact on our war with them. And from that also is taking or destroying the wealth of the harbi kuffar in order to ruin their lands, which would weaken the enemy’s strength and harm his economy. Abu Yusuf said, “And there is no harm in burning their fortresses with fire, or flooding them with water, or ruining and destroying them on top of them, and setting up catapults against them, due to His  statement, ‘They destroy their houses by their [own] hands and the hands of the believers’ (Al-Hashr 2), and because all that is considered fighting, due to what it entails of subduing, suppressing, and enraging the enemy, and because the sanctity of any wealth is due to the sanctity of its owner, and they have no sanctity concerning their persons until they are killed, so how then concerning their wealth?” (Badai’ as-Sanai’). Furthermore, this wealth may benefit jihad if it is utilized for the cause of Allah, so the muwahhid takes from the harbi kafir in order to finance the hijrah of his Muslim brothers to the wilayat of the Khilafah, or to finance those waging jihad against the kuffar. And how many a Muslim has delayed his hijrah and been forced to work under the employment of the kuffar until he can obtain enough money for his journey, and Allah’s help is sought. And likewise, the mujahid muwahhid uses the wealth of the kuffar to purchase any required weapons and equipment to carry out operations in the enemy’s homeland. Therefore, O muwahhid residing in the lands of the kuffar, be like Abu Jandal  and do not hesitate to take the wealth of the harbi kuffar, either by force or through theft and fraud, and ponder the statement of Imam Ibn Taymiyyah  concerning the Muslims who enters dar al-harb: “Likewise, if he kidnaps them or their children, or subdues them in any way, then the lives and wealth of the harbi kuffar are permissible for the Muslims. So if they seize them in a shar’i manner they own them” (Majmu’ al-Fatawa). This is with regards to kidnapping their children, so how then with regards to stealing their wealth? And do not forget that their war on the Islamic State is dependant on wealth, so purify your intentions, place your trust in Allah, and do not seek anyone’s advice with regards to taking their wealth. Proceed forward with Allah’s blessing, for indeed stealing the kuffar’s wealth weakens them, threatens the security of their economies, strengthens and emboldens the believers, and prepares them for something greater than theft, and this is among the aspects of jihad that have been abandoned in this era except by a group of those who are truthful, and how few they are. We ask Allah to grant victory to His mujahid slaves, and to heal the breasts of the muwahhidin. And all praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the creation.