The time has come to distinguish and separate the truthful from the liar, the righteous from the wicked, the believer from the hypocrite, and those who are steadfast and unshakable from those who despair and lose hope; to separate those who truly desire Jannah from deep within their hearts from those who only make the claim on the tip of their tongues. I ask Allah to make us among those who remain steadfast until the end to witness the victory or grant us the provision of an accepted shahadah. I invite my sisters in the Islamic State who – by Allah’s grace – have remained firm, patient and persevering, to lend me their ears, as I believe we are in serious need of reminders and rectification. May Allah shower His mercy upon all of you and may these words be beneficial and a turning point for us all towards what is best. My beloved sisters with whom I am on a journey to Allah, let us purify our intentions and rectify our deeds, as it seems that ahead of us await times of intense trials and extreme hardships, and times of severe battles between iman and kufr, after which will be ease inshaallah, as Allah  has promised us in His statement, “For verily along with hardship is relief. Verily along with hardship is relief ” (Ash-Sharh 5-6), and in His statement, “And [that] indeed, Our soldiers would be the victors” (As Saffat 173). So the question is, are we prepared for it? Are our souls ready to make sacrifices for the sake of Allah? Are our hearts empty of everything except iman? Are we able to continue upon this path? Are we able to remain firm and steadfast and say as the Sahabah  said after the Battle of Uhud: “Those unto whom the people said, ‘Verily the people have gathered against you. Therefore fear them.’ But it only increased them in faith, and they said, ‘Allah is sufficient for us, and He is the Best Disposer of affairs’” (Al ‘Imran 173). This was due to their iman in Allah and His Messenger, their certainty in Allah and His aid, and their trust and handing over of their affairs to Him. It was due to their sincerity towards Allah and His Messenger. Was there anything left that they did not give up in order to seek the pleasure of Allah? There were no thorny paths that they could have treaded for the sake of Allah except that they treaded them willingly. There was no better way of showing their loyalty to Allah and His Messenger than cutting the heads of their mushrik relatives and so they did it. Their claim of loving Allah and His Messenger more than anything else was truly illustrated through their iman, their taqwa, their sacrifices, and their ambitions. It was demonstrated by what their concerns were. And their yearning to Allah made it clear that they desired the Hereafter only. May Allah  be pleased with them all and grant us of strength, iman, and taqwa the like of what they were blessed with so that we can attain the likes of the rewards they attained. My beloved sisters, our roles and responsibilities have not come to an end. Rather, they have increased and have become of greater importance. It is time to reform ourselves, to wake up from the slumber of heedlessness to the reality of our objectives. It is time to examine our duties and roles, and prioritize our concerns for the Hereafter, not the Dunya. We Muslim women are required to fulfill our duties attentively, and being negligent of them will only lead to our own destruction. Our mission is greater than we can imagine. Allah has honored us by choosing us to be the wives, sisters, and mothers of the mujahidin, so does it befit us to be busied by the lowly materialistic life as many of us have unfortunately become? The time to prepare ourselves is limited, so we must dust off the dirt of laziness and break the shackles of the Dunya. Did we not already leave the best that the world could offer us a long time ago? Did we not leave the most beloved ones to us behind when we took our first steps on our hijrah? So why it is that after having purified our hearts of the Dunya some of us are caught up in the traps of shaytan, with our hearts being contaminated and becoming attached to the Dunya once more by making foods, drinks, gossip, slander, idle speech, and materialistic objects our main concern? How sad is it that we are witnessing sisters chasing after the Dunya here instead of making their priority the support of their mujahid husbands and the raising of their children to emulate the likes of Khalid Ibn Walid and ‘Abdullah Ibn az-Zubayr. Allah  says “You are the best nation brought forth for the people. You enjoin right and forbid wrong, and you believe in Allah” (Al ‘Imran 110). Yet, how many sisters have returned to Dar al-Harb after refusing to remarry for the sake of Allah due to their extreme love of their husband who had attained shahadah inshaallah, even though on the Day of Judgment everyone’s cry will be “Myself, myself,” and neither will a woman be concerned about her husband, nor will a man be concerned about his wife. Why are we allowing our desires to control our actions? Do we not contemplate on the ayah in which Allah  says, “Have you seen him who takes his own desires as his god?” (Al-Jathiyah 23). How many of us here without maharim are not obeying those who’ve been designated to be responsible over us, whereas Allah commands us to do so, saying, “O you who believe, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those of you who are in authority” (An-Nisa 59). And how many of us are making life difficult for our husbands because they intend to practice the sunnah of polygamy in which there are many benefits for the Ummah, while Allah  says, “O you who believe, enter into Islam completely and follow not the footsteps of Shaytan, for he is to you a plain enemy” (Al-Baqarah 208). How many of us have aided Shaytan in breaking the marriage between our husband and our co-wives because of our extreme jealousy? Did we forget that Allah  said, “Whosoever intercedes for a good cause will have the reward thereof, and whosoever intercedes for an evil cause will have a share in its burden. And Allah is Ever All Able to do everything (An-Nisa 85). And there are some of us whose only concern is to leave the house frequently and unnecessarily, simply chasing after the Dunya, while Allah  has commanded us to stay in our homes: “And stay in your houses and do not display yourselves like that of the time of ignorance” (Al-Ahzab 33). O my beloved sisters, Allah is Al-Ghaniy (the one free of need). He is neither in need of us nor in need of our deeds, and to Him belong the treasures of the heavens and the earth. He  said, “And Allah is indeed free of need, while you are the needy. If you turn away, He will replace you with other people, and they will not be like you” (Muhammad 38). His religion will survive with or without us, but do we not wish to continue to earn abundant rewards and make investments for our Hereafter? We should never take the acceptance of our hijrah for granted or think that by rallying under the banner of La Ilaha Illallah we are doing Allah a favor when in fact the opposite is the case with all of us. It is Allah who bestowed His favor upon us, allowing us to be here, and who honored us over many who remained behind. It is Allah who gave us the ability to contribute to the Islamic State. It is from the favors of Allah upon us, who by His grace and mercy alone gave us the guidance and tawfiq to follow this path. The matter of fact is that we are in debt to Allah so we have to be grateful as much as we can – although we can never be grateful enough – so that He does not replace us, but rather, is pleased with us and keeps us firm on His straight path. Have we forgotten the hadith reported by al- Bukhari and Muslim from Abu Sa’id al-Khudri, who said that the Prophet g said, “O women give in charity, for I have seen that you form the majority of the people of Hell.” They asked, “Why is that so, O Messenger of Allah?” He said, “Because you curse too much and are ungrateful for good treatment.” O my sisters, while our brothers, the mujahidin, are giving their souls to Allah, why are our tongues not moist with Allah’s remembrance? While they are facing down and waging war against the coalition of the kuffar, why are we not making prolonged prostrations to Allah in the middle of the night? While they are sacrificing and leaving their loved ones behind why are we not sacrificing our desires by fasting during the day and taking control of our lusts and our tongues? Allah  said, “Has not the time come for the hearts of those who believe to be affected by Allah’s reminder, and that which has been revealed of the truth, lest they become as those who received the scripture and the term prolonged for them and so their hearts were hardened? And many of them were fasiqin” (Al-Hadid 16). It is time to purify our intentions, examine our deeds, cast out from our hearts anything that serves to distract us from our goal, and return to Allah with sincere repentance, by abandoning our sins, feeling regret for committing them, and pledging to Allah not to return to them. Allah  says, “Say: O My slaves who have transgressed against themselves! Despair not of Allah’s mercy. Verily, Allah forgives all sins. Truly He is Oft-Forgiving, Most Merciful” (Az-Zumar 53). We must seek His aid and guidance, as only Allah can grant us victory. He  says, “If Allah helps you, none can overcome you, and if He forsakes you is there, after Him, any that can help you? And in Allah (alone) let the believers put their trust” (Al ‘Imran 160). Let us be as those women who knew their role and fulfilled them, for being supportive of your mujahid husband is one of your key roles in the land of jihad, my dear sister, and the importance of it cannot be overemphasized. Let your home be a place of rest for his mind rather than a house of complaints. Make it a place where he can recharge his energy for jihad rather than vacuuming out the energy that is left in him. Put your concerns aside and prioritize his needs first. Appreciate his presence and be patient with his absence for he is not running a family business or working a 9 to 5 job like in Dar al-Kufr. Rather, he is a mujahid in the path of Allah serving the religion of your Lord, Most High. Try to hide your difficulties and weaknesses from him so that Shaytan doesn’t make it a fitnah for him while he is in the middle of the battlefield. Serve him with the best of your ability and inshaallah you will be rewarded like him through Allah’s grace and generosity. Ibn Abid-Dunya reported from Jabir Ibn ‘Abdillah that he said, “While we were sitting with Allah’s Messenger g, there came a woman and said, ‘O Messenger of Allah, I am the representative of the women to you. O Messenger of Allah, the Lord of the men and the Lord of the women is Allah , and Adam is the father of the men and the father of the women, and Hawa is the mother of the men and the mother of the women, and Allah  has sent you to the men and to the women. If the men head out in the path of Allah and are killed, they are alive with their Lord receiving provision, and if they march forth, they receive the likes of rewards which you are aware of, and we serve them and restrict ourselves to them, so what do we have of rewards?’ So Allah’s Messenger g said, ‘Convey to the women my greetings and say to them, ‘Indeed, obeying one’s husband is equal to that [in rewards], but few of you do this’” (An Nafaqah ‘Ala al-‘Iyal). So let us renew our intentions, my sisters, as the Messenger of Allah g said, “Actions are but by intentions and each person will have that which he intended” (Reported by al-Bukhari and Muslim). And moving forward, let us take as an example Khadijah  to whom Allah  sent His greetings and to whom He gave glad tidings of a palace in Paradise because of her immediate faith in Him, which was followed by her unwavering support of her husband, the Messenger of Allah g. And likewise, take as an example ‘Aishah , who had a brilliant mind and a remarkable memory through which she passed on an abundance of hadith, so much so that without the knowledge she passed on our Islamic library would not be the same. And all the mothers of the believers are to be taken as examples along with other righteous women around the Messenger g. In addition to that, it is upon us, my beloved sisters, to abandon sins, both minor and major, and to fear the consequences of our disobedience towards Allah. Do not rely on mere hopes and wishes, for neither have we been guaranteed that our deeds will be accepted, nor are we from among those who have been promised Jannah. Rather, we should drive ourselves to excel in what Allah has made obligatory upon us and always strive to do voluntary deeds. Finally, I remind you once more of the importance of divorcing the Dunya and its adornments, and I counsel you to strive to turn the pains of trials and tribulations into the sweetness of iman by remembering that this pain only draws us closer to Allah, so how sweet is such pain! Let there arise from among us women who are saddened by the return of their husbands and sons from the battlefield without shahadah. Rise with courage and sacrifice in this war as the righteous women did at the time of the Messenger of Allah g, not because of the small number of men but rather, due to their love for jihad, their desire to sacrifice for the sake of Allah, and their desire for Jannah. Among those blessed women were Umm ‘Amarah Nasibah Bint Ka’b al-Ansariyyah. Adh-Dhahabi  reported that she witnessed Uhud, Hudaybiyah, the day of Hunayn, and the day of Yamamah. She fought with courage and her hand was cut off in battle, and the Messenger of Allah g said about her, “Indeed the status of Nasibah Bint Ka’b today is better than the status of so-and-so and soand- so” (Siyar A’lam an-Nubala). So let us reflect on our status, my sisters, in comparison to these righteous women. What would the Messenger of Allah g say about us? The race is at its final stages, so continue your struggle, my dear sister, even if you are trembling or slowing down. Seek the help of Allah, have trust in Him, and bear with patience whatever befalls you for His sake, for “Indeed Allah is with those who are patient” (Al-Anfal 46). Be eager to give whatever it takes to attain the pleasure of your Lord and be ready to sacrifice the dearest and most precious things in your life, as this would cleanse your heart of being attached to anything and anyone other than Allah. Indeed, this is what we have come for, to complete our journey to Allah! So proceed with righteous deeds, hope for their acceptance, and rejoice for any of the two good ends with Allah’s permission, either victory or shahadah! In conclusion, I end with the perfect words of Allah , “And strive hard in Allah’s cause as you ought to strive. He has chosen you and has not laid upon you in religion any hardship. It is the religion of your father Ibrahim. It is He (Allah) who has named you Muslims both before and in this (Quran), that the Messenger may be a witness over you and that you be witnesses over mankind. So perform salah, give zakah, and hold fast to Allah. He is your Protector. What an excellent Protector and what an excellent Helper (Al-Hajj 78).