“So do not weaken and do not grieve, and you will be superior if you are [true] believers. If a wound should touch you - there has already touched the [opposing] people a wound similar to it. And these days [of varying conditions] We alternate among the people so that Allah may make evident those who believe and [may] take to Himself from among you martyrs - and Allah does not like the wrongdoers” (Al ‘Imran 139-140). Indeed, all praise is due to Allah. We praise Him, seek His help, and ask for His forgiveness. We seek refuge with Allah from the evils of our souls and the evil consequences of our deeds. Whomsoever Allah guides, none can misguide, and whomsoever Allah misguides, none can guide. I testify that there is no god but Allah, alone and without partners, and I testify that Muhammad is His slave and messenger, who delivered the message, fulfilled the trust, admonished the Ummah and left it upon the clear path whose night is like its day, and from which none strays except one who is ruined. “O you who have believed, fear Allah as He should be feared and do not die except as Muslims [in submission to Him]” (Al ‘Imran 102). “O mankind, fear your Lord, who created you from one soul and created from it its mate and dispersed from the two of them many men and women. And fear Allah, through whom you ask one another, and the wombs. Indeed Allah is ever, over you, an Observer” (An-Nisa 1). “O you who have believed, fear Allah and speak words of appropriate justice. He will [then] amend for you your deeds and forgive you your sins. And whoever obeys Allah and His Messenger has certainly attained a great attainment” (Al-Ahzab 70-71). As for what follows: History repeats itself and the logic throughout the ages does not change. People change, actors are changed, tools evolve, but the stage of the events is constant and the story of the conflict is the same. Truth wrestles with falsehood, Islam wages war against disbelief, jahiliyyah and hypocrisy creep in, and weak, frail individuals hold the staff from its middle and ascribe themselves to their ummah, but give preference to their worldly life and wait for the silence of those shouting and for the end of the battle so that they may join the strong one, and board the ships of the dominant, and evil is what they do. The pious men alone carry the banner in an era when the people break down, and they raise their foreheads in an era when the people are disgraced, and their ambitions soar through the air to the Knowing, Seeing One in emulation of the warner and bringer of glad tidings g. They are strangers whose faces are scorched by the winds of solitude, and whose bare feet bleed in deserts that are inflamed by the fire of enmity. Doors are shut before them, so they seek the door to the heavens and it is opened for them by the soul of the gardens, by which the souls are given life. They tasted the joy of iman, so none of them goes back out of resentment towards his religion, even if the whole world were to unite against him. O my ummah, the measure has overflown, the matter has reached a critical point, the oppressors have exceeded the limits, the rebellious transgressors have sniffed our earth, and wolves – nay, dogs! – have become emboldened against us! And the people search for a solution in the mirage of the desert of the labyrinth, while the solution is in their hands… it is but waging jihad for the sake of Allah! These are recommendations of the leaders of jihad who went ahead of us on this blessed path, which I gathered with minor alterations, as a reminder for myself and my mujahid brothers, as an incitement to steadfastness, and as a call to patience upon the fundamentals and constants. O mujahidin! Indeed, I do not fear for you the abundance of your enemy, nor the magnitude of their weaponry, nor the mobilization of the forces of evil and their gathering against you. Nor do I fear the desertion of your Muslim brothers in the various parts of the world, but I fear for you from your own selves. I fear that weakness, feebleness, failure, and abundance of sins may afflict you. And there is a lesson and a reminder for you in what happened on the day of the Battle of Uhud. Allah  said, “Until [the time] when you lost courage and fell to disputing about the order [given by the Prophet] and disobeyed after He had shown you that which you love. Among you are those who desire this world, and among you are those who desire the Hereafter. Then He turned you back from them [defeated] that He might test you” (Al ‘Imran 152). Ibn Kathir said, “Triumph and victory were for Islam at the beginning of the day, but when the disobedience of the archers took place and some of the fighting failed, the promise tied to the condition of steadfastness and obedience was delayed.” In this battle amazing events took place: The enemy was more than three times stronger than the Muslims. Allah supported the Muslims at the beginning of the day, but when they sinned He brought the turn of events against them at the end of the day. Jabir  said, “The people scattered away from the Prophet g on the day of Uhud, while 12 men from the Ansar, as well as Talhah, stayed with him.” And in the hadith of Anas  he said, “On the day of Uhud, when then Muslims were uncovered, he – meaning Anas Ibn an-Nadr – said, ‘O Allah, I seek Your pardon for what those ones – he means his companions – have done, and I disavow myself before You from what those ones – he means the mushrikin – have done.’” Abud-Darda sat down and wept after the conquest of Cyprus when he saw the weeping of its people and their disparity. It was said to him, “What makes you weep, O Abud-Darda, on a day when Allah has given victory to Islam?” He said, “Woe to you! How worthless is the creation to Allah when they abandon His command. While they were a nation which was manifest and conquering they left Allah’s command, so they became such as you can see.” O mujahidin! The support of Allah might be delayed, and there might be calamities and wounds in your ranks, and this is not strange, since this is the sunnah of Allah concerning those that came before you and you will not find in the sunnah of Allah any change. Hiraql (Heraclius) said to Abu Sufyan, “I asked you how your fight against him goes – he means the Messenger of Allah g – and you claimed that the war is contentious and goes back and forth. And likewise the messengers are afflicted. Then the final outcome is theirs.” Indeed, the greatest thing you are tested with in your fight is patience and certainty – certainty that Allah will fulfill His promise and give victory to His army and party, even if after a while, and patience at the encounter of hardships, because indeed victory comes with patience. And indeed relief comes with agony, and with hardship comes ease. A man asked ash-Shafi’i, saying, “O Abu ‘Abdillah, which is better for a man? To receive tamkin (consolidation) or to be tested?” Thereupon ash-Shafi’i said, “He will not receive tamkin until he is tested.” For indeed, Allah tested Nuh, Ibrahim, Musa, and Muhammad , and when they were patient He gave them tamkin. So let none of you assume that no pain will reach him at all. Mistaken is the one who assumes about Allah the assumption of evil, so he looks at the numbers of the enemy and his equipment and then forgets the promise of Allah, “Allah has written, ‘I will surely overcome, I and My messengers’” (Al Mujadilah 21). “And whoever is an ally of Allah and His Messenger and those who have believed - indeed, the party of Allah - they will be the predominant” (Al-Maidah 56). “And incumbent upon Us was support of the believers” (Ar-Rum 47). “Allah has promised those who have believed among you and done righteous deeds that He will surely grant them succession [to authority] upon the earth just as He granted it to those before them and that He will surely establish for them [therein] their religion which He has preferred for them and that He will surely substitute for them, after their fear, security” (An-Nur 55). So this condition is in exchange for the stipulated matter, that being security, sincerity, righteous deeds. Then comes victory and tamkin, and then inheriting authority in the land. “[This is] the promise of Allah. Allah does not fail in [His] promise” (Az-Zumar: 20). How beautiful is what the author of adh-Dhilal said while commenting on Allah’s  statement, “How many a small company has overcome a large company by permission of Allah. And Allah is with the patient” (Al-Baqarah 249): “This is the foundation in the sense of those who have certainty that they will meet Allah. “The foundation is that the believing company is small because it ascends the arduous steps until it becomes the party of selection and choice. But it is the dominating [i.e. victorious] one, because it connects with the source of strength and because it represents the dominating strength, the strength of Allah, the one who prevails over His affair, the Subduer above His slaves, the Crusher of the insolent, the One who humiliates the oppressors, and the Dominator of the arrogant.” O mujahidin! You are indeed in a situation which is to be rejoiced over, and not as is said by the demoralizing deserters from among those who look at the matter from a purely materialistic perspective or who are frightened from that which the Western and Arabic news and their puppets broadcast concerning the victory of the parties and the flight of the mujahidin, for war is not measured by numbers and equipment, nor by victory and domination, for indeed these things are necessary, then victory and tamkin comes, even if after a while. Shaykhul-Islam  described that which happened in his time of the mobilization of the parties, including the Tatar, munafiqin, and others against the Muslims, saying, “This fitnah has divided the people into three groups: 1. The victorious group: They are the ones waging jihad against the corrupt people. 2. The opposing group: They are these people (i.e. the Tatars) and those who joined their side from among the confused masses who ascribe themselves to Islam. 3. The deserting group: They are the ones who remain behind from their jihad, even if their Islam is sound. “So let every man check if he is part of the victorious group or the deserting group or the transgressing group, for there is no fourth one. “And know that in jihad lies the good of this world and the Hereafter. And in abandoning it lies the loss of this world and the Hereafter. Allah  said, ‘Say, ‘Do you await for us except one of the two best outcomes’’ (At-Tawbah 52). That means either victory and triumph or shahadah and Paradise. “Those of the mujahidin who lived, lived a noble life and for him would be the reward of this world and the best reward of the Hereafter, and whoever died or was killed would go to Paradise. “The Prophet g said, ‘The martyr is given six characteristics: He is forgiven with the first drop of blood, he sees his seat in Paradise, he is made to wear a garment of iman, he marries 72 from the Hur al-‘In, he is protected from the punishment of the grave, and he is safe from the great terror.’ “The Messenger of Allah g said, ‘Indeed, in Paradise are a hundred levels, and that which is between one level and the next level is like that which is between the heavens and the earth. Allah  prepared it for the mujahidin in His path.’ So this is the elevation of 50,000 years in Paradise for the people of jihad…” Until Shaykhul-Islam said, “Likewise the scholars agreed – as far as I know – that there is no better voluntary deed than jihad, and it is better than the Hajj pilgrimage and better than fasting and voluntary prayers. “And ribat is better than living in Makkah, Madinah, and Bayt al-Maqdis… Abu Hurayrah  even said, ‘To do ribat for the cause of Allah one night is more beloved to me than to spend the night of Qadar at the black stone.’ So he preferred one night of ribat over worship on the most virtuous night at the most virtuous site…” Until he said, “And know – may Allah rectify you – that support is for the believers, and the final outcome is for the pious, and that Allah is with those who fear [Him] and those who do good. “And those people – he means the enemies – will be subdued, crushed. Allah  will support us against them and take vengeance for us from them, and there is no might or strength except through Allah, the Most High, the Most Great. “So receive glad tidings of the victory of Allah  and a good outcome. ‘Do not weaken and do not grieve, and you will be superior if you are [true] believers’ (Al ‘Imran 139). This is a matter which we have certainty in and which we have ascertained, and all praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the creation...” He  then said, “And know – may Allah rectify you – that from the greatest of blessings for the one whom Allah wants good for is that He made him live in this time in which Allah renews the religion and revives the banner of the Muslims and the conditions of the believers and mujahidin, until it resembles the condition of the forerunners from among the Muhajirin and Ansar. “So whoever carries this out in this time is thereby from those who followed them in goodness, those whom Allah is pleased with and who are pleased with Him, and for whom He has prepared gardens beneath which rivers flow, to abide therein forever – and that is the great success. “So the believers should thank Allah  for the tribulation... the reality of which is that it is a great, generous gift from Allah. And in this fitnah lies a huge blessing, to the extent that – by Allah – if the first forerunners from the Muhajirin and Ansar like Abu Bakr, ‘Umar, ‘Uthman, ‘Ali, and others were to have been present in this time, it would have been from the best of their deeds to wage jihad against those criminal people. And the likes of these battles are not missed except by one whose trade has become lost, who has become foolish, and who has been prevented from a great fortune of this world and the Hereafter, unless he is from those who have been excused by Allah , such as the sick, the poor, the blind, and others…” This marks the end of his  words. And he  says, “And the hump of this is jihad for the sake of Allah, for it is indeed the greatest thing beloved to Allah and His Messenger, and its critics are many, since many who have iman dislike it, and they are either deserters falsely claiming to have ambition and desire for it, or they are demoralizers who weaken strength and ability for it, even if all this is from hypocrisy.”

