O patient mujahid anticipating his reward, these words were written in order that you recognize your worth and value in the sight of the enemies of Allah and your enemies, for the various nations have gathered against you along with the races of the Arabs and non-Arabs. So who are you, O lofty mountain, who are you that the Crusaders should anchor their battleships in the seas, and that the kafir warplanes should patrol your skies, and that the debauched assemblies should roam your lands? Who are you, O you who takes honor from his religion and his tawhid, that they should gather against you all of these assemblies and besiege with all its ability, a land that is ruled by Allah’s shari’ah and defends its sanctities? You have been elevated by Allah’s honor, strength, and His exalted shari’ah, and what you are upon of tawhid grieved the kuffar due to the envy they foster within themselves. For if you were to possess the land but your state did not rule by Allah’s shari’ah they wouldn’t have paid you any mind, but it is your tawhid that enrages them. Allah  said, “Many of the People of the Scripture wish they could turn you back to disbelief after you have believed, out of envy from themselves [even] after the truth has become apparent to them” (Al-Baqarah 109). And so they sought to respond to this abominable envy by fighting you, and thus their fighting was on account of your religion which you carried in your heart and upon your limbs. Allah  said, “And they will continue to fight you until they turn you back from your religion if they are able” (Al-Baqarah 217). If you possessed weapons of mass destruction and did not possess this great religion they would have left you alone as they left alone states that possess them or strive to possess them, but rather, they knew that your religion which is prevalent through your severe fighting of their tawaghit and their armies is greater than any weapon they possess. They therefore have not previously granted you – nor will they ever grant you – respite for a single moment, nor will they disengage from fighting you or showing enmity towards you. So either it is their rule on the earth and the fitnah of shirk which they seek to transmit, or it is the sovereignty of Allah and the supremacy of His religion on the earth. So be truthful to Allah in your jihad, O enemy of the nations, and revere Him and do not revere anyone else besides Him, for the despair of the kafir from your religion is an absolute certainty. Allah  said, “This day those who disbelieve have despaired of [defeating] your religion; so fear them not, but fear Me” (Al-Maidah 3). O muwahhid stranger, indeed you are a target regardless of your status, whether you were a soldier or a leader, and whether you were poor or rich, because the reason for you being targeted is due to your religion which the kuffar know you have embraced in its entirety, and the fact that you don’t believe in only a portion of it while rejecting another portion so that you could meet with them on some sort of middle ground. And likewise, that is your condition, O patient muwahhidah, for indeed you are chaste and increase the offspring of the mujahidin and nurture your children upon tawhid and jihad against the kuffar, and so your religion and purity enrages them. Therefore, it is of no surprise that you would be a specific target for the kuffar. We are engaged in a long struggle with the kuffar, and success and victory for the muttaqin is guaranteed, for Allah  has said, “And the [best] outcome is for the righteous” (Al-A’raf 128), and He  said, “And [that] indeed, Our soldiers will be those prevalent” (As-Saffat 173), for either you are prevalent in this worldly life by dominance and triumph over the kuffar, or victorious through being killed in Allah’s cause, obtaining through it a blissful abode with the generous Lord, while your enemies are in constant loss, and rage causes them to exhaust their strength in order to hinder the people from Allah’s path through their spending of wealth and through fighting, and through other than that from the fleeting ornaments of this world. Therefore, O honorable and defiant one in the era of epic battles, proceed and don’t look back for you were not created for the sake of a transient earth. Rather, you were created to worship Allah alone and attain Jannah and delightful gardens. Therefore, actualize the meaning of slavery towards Allah with the establishment of His shari’ah and by disbelieving in the institutions of the tawaghit of the world and their religions and assemblies, and declare with full honor and pride the religion for which Allah has written supremacy over all religions, for it is because of this that you are their primary target and their first priority. Have you realized your worth in the sight of your enemies? Have you become aware of the extent of your shortcomings in performing your obligation while you waste your time and the kuffar invest their time in waging war on you? Have you become aware of the extent of your shortcomings towards yourself when you are heedless of the weapon of taqwa even as the nations of kufr advance their weapons daily in order to strike you? Have you become aware of the extent of your shortcomings when you abandon adhkar and supplications through which you shield yourself against the plots of the shayatin of mankind and jinn while they have employed against you spies and munafiqin, and sorcerers and shayatin? Have you become aware of the extent of your shortcomings when you dedicate the majority of your time towards this world, the world which you had supposedly left for its people so you could proceeded towards your Lord, seeking one of the two good outcomes? Have you become aware of the extent of your shortcomings and sinfulness when you break the ranks of the mujahidin and their hearts, not listening to and obeying your amir in good nor obeying Allah and His Messenger g? For verily the one who obeys the amir has obeyed Allah and His Messenger g, so look towards the nations of kufr and how they have obeyed their deity, America, and have attacked you in unison, and united upon that. Have you become aware of the extent of your shortcomings when you do not endeavor to increase in the knowledge that brings you to Allah , rescuing yourself and your family by it from the Fire? Know the reality of loss, for it is not that one loses an expansive abode or nice-looking vehicle, or loses one’s wealth or spouse, or loses the opportunity to marry a beautiful woman. Rather, it is what Allah said: “Say, ‘Indeed, the losers are the ones who will lose themselves and their families on the Day of Resurrection. Unquestionably, that is the manifest loss’” (Az-Zumar 15). Know, O muwahhid, that if the fitnah of the kuffar has constrained you and the siege has confined you, while you do not know how the enemies of the religion view you, and are not capable of bearing your responsibility, then you are on the verge of collapse. So seek assistance with Allah and do not weaken, and seek provision from taqwa for it is your weapon that won’t be exhausted, and your sword that won’t fail. Therefore, maintain the adhkar of the morning and evening, and the protections by which you guard against the enemies, for he who takes shelter with Allah’s sanctuaries and strength cannot be overcome. And invest your time in everything that enrages the kuffar, affects and weakens them, destroys their morale, and inflicts the greatest damage upon them, and never become heedless in renewing your iman and tawhid and fighting the tawaghit and their soldiers. And make this the habit for yourself and your family. Also, with your brothers remind one another and learn, and assist them in truth and patience upon the hardships of this path until relaxation arrives in an eternal gathering and blessings that don’t end, for the space the size of a whip of the mujahid in Jannah is better than the world and all that is on it, so what must a Jannah whose width is that of the heavens and the earth be like?! Know that you are approaching trials and tribulations in the face of which none will remain firm except he whose iman is deeply rooted and whose certainty, patience, and good reliance is firmly established. Ibn Taymiyyah  said regarding jihad, “In it are the peaks of tawakkul and the peaks of patience, for the mujahid is the most needy of people in regards to patience and tawkkul, and because of that Allah  said, ‘And those who emigrated for [the cause of ] Allah after they had been wronged - We will surely settle them in this world in a good place; but the reward of the Hereafter is greater, if only they could know. Those who endured patiently and upon their Lord relied’ (An-Nahl 41-42), and He said, ‘Musa said to his people, ‘Seek help through Allah and be patient. Indeed, the earth belongs to Allah. He causes to inherit it whom He wills of His servants. And the [best] outcome is for the righteous’’ (Al-A’raf 128)” (Majmu’ al-Fatawa). And remember, O enemy of the nations, that the matter for whose sake you set out is indeed great, for you did not set out except to accomplish slavery towards Allah  and to rescue people from the slavery of the tawaghit, and bring them out of darkness into light by Allah’s permission . Thus, if you are killed, your death is an honorable one and a high rank, and what is your rank in Jannah which Allah has prepared for you except because you showed enmity towards the nations of kufr and disbelieved in their tawaghit and believed in Allah as your Lord and God and established His shari’ah in spite of them, and so you came with jihad and the pursuit of shahadah – a clear evidence for the truth of your call to the tawhid of Allah  and disbelief in the false rivals – and thus the most valuable thing a slave presents before his Lord is his life and his wealth. Ibn Taymiyyah  said, “And from the greatest of levels of sincerity is surrendering one’s life and wealth to the One who is worshiped, as Allah  said, ‘Indeed, Allah has purchased from the believers their lives and their properties [in exchange] for that they will have Jannah. They fight in the cause of Allah, so they kill and are killed’ (At-Tawbah 111), and Jannah is a name of the abode which contains every bliss, the highest of which is a gaze at Allah, in addition to other things which the inner self desires and which please the eyes, from that which we know and that which we don’t know, as Allah  said in that which was reported from Him by His Messenger g, ‘I have prepared for my righteous slaves what no eye has seen and what no ear has heard and that which the heart of the human has not conceived’” (Majmu’ al-Fatawa).