On the margins of European jahiliyyah, which conceals its disgusting reality beneath a glittering veil of lies and claims, such as happiness, security and equality, amongst other false slogans, a wide spectrum of jahili practices emerged which feed off the rotten milk of jahili Europe – rotten milk with which it poisons its children and raises them to become deformed versions of the mushrik and atheist monsters of Europe. But whosoever Allah wills guidance, the entire earth couldn’t prevent that from him. And as such Allah brings forth from the midst of such a society contaminated with shirk, indecency, and corruption in the land, a people whom He guides to the sound way, and makes them from amongst His righteous allies and honored slaves. And from them are those for whom He seals a great good – shahadah in the cause of Allah c – that he may come on the day of judgement having nothing against him to be accounted for, nor facing punishment so that he should fear. In the impoverished suburbs of Paris, the foreigners of that country are amassed, crowded together in neighborhoods that are congested with Arabs and Africans from countries that France once occupied, with many of them associating themselves to Islam, though the matter may not go beyond them having opened their eyes to the world and found that they had names that resembled the names of the Muslims. But whether they are Muslims or merely claim to be Muslims, in both cases there is enough reason for the original inhabitants of the land from among the Christians and Jews to hate them, and to endeavor to separate them from themselves, relegate them to the outskirts of the city, and avoid mixing with them and employing them in important positions of work. They prefer to leave them in this despicable condition so that they can be cheap servants for them who perform the kind of work that they themselves avoid, granting them in exchange for this humiliating condition the permission to remain in the country, as well as some wealth that barely keeps them alive and suffices their needs. Many of the residents of these suburbs accept these circumstances, which the tawaghit of the country and its native citizens conspired in in order that their situation remains as such, while others rebelled, in pursuit of a better life, equating with those who exclude them, and seeking fortune through the admiration of those who hate them. And so they did not find any avenue which would deliver them to that goal accept wealth, for it is the most important factor for measuring the value of people in that material society. Thus, the acquisition of wealth through any means possible became the goal, in pursuit of the attainment of deprived needs, and in aspiration of the fulfillment of endless desires. In order to achieve this goal within the fastest time possible many of those pursue this worldly life, wandering and panting behind it, motivated by the attainment of a quick fortune, in most cases that being limited to the world of robbery and drug dealing. And so they enter this whirlpool, throwing themselves into the midst of destructive matters – as they chase behind any worldly trifles whether small or large – such as gang wars, the constant dangers involved in every robbery operation, or transactions which in most cases lead to prisons cells, and push them to more dangerous bottomless pits. So Whoever Allah Wants to Guide – He Opens his Breast to Islam Macreme Abroujui was a young man originally from Tunisia. He spent his infancy and his early youth in this deplorable life, his concern was this worldly life which many had achieved, while headless of the Hereafter for which he had not learned how to prepare. He was a fierce gangster, who acquired an enormous amount of money through numerous raids on the wealth of the mushrikin, until he obtained a beautiful car, and began to join Paris’s rich and famous in their clubs and celebrations, and that is the highest achievement for individuals of that diseased world. He was a man whom people would fear, as he was known amongst his peers as brave and fearless, a that he wasn’t afraid of confrontation, nor would he run from a fight, especially in the ongoing and never-ending strife between the vile neighborhoods – in the gloom of jahiliyyah – of France’s suburbs. He wouldn’t care about France’s police officers, as he would have shootouts with them and succeed in escaping from them during his robbery campaigns or when selling drugs. He was generous in nature and noble in his manners, despite his indulgence in disobedience and sins. He wouldn’t hesitate to help a friend, or to defend his neighbor, nor would he hesitate to spend his wealth – no matter how large a sum – in order to help meet the needs of one who was in need, or to fill the hand of a relative. He was administrative-minded and organized, and therefore, he would not devise a plan except that he had prepared for it its means and studied its outcomes and its consequences, and so he would employ this characteristic of his in his operations in an effective way, not breaking into a residence until he had monitored the property thoroughly, and thus if he were to raid the premises he would have considered the worst outcomes and prepared for himself ways to escape from being killed or arrested. All of these characteristics were sufficient to make him eligible to be the leader of a dangerous gang, or a major drug dealer, but Allah’s decree was to pave for him the way to another path, entirely opposite to the direction in which his life was heading. And thus – as is the norm for most of the youth affiliated with Islam in the West, those who are heedless of the remembrance of Allah’s worship except in the month of Ramadan – Macreme entered one of the masajid seeking to perform i’tikaf therein, and to atone for his sins. Thus, it was Allah’s decree that he would find one of the callers to Islam quietly giving lectures and teaching some of his brothers the religion. He wasn’t from amongst those evil scholars allied to the belligerent Christians, nor from the famous ones to whose lectures the masses would flock. Rather, he was a simple young man who would isolate himself with his students in one of the corners of the masjid so they could avoid the eyes of the people. They would lower their voices and speak words which he hadn’t heard before from those callers whom he had met or had seen in the media. This young man was speaking in his gathering about the reality of Islam and kufr and the difference between them, and about the obligation of loyalty towards the Muslims and disavowal from the kuffar – and in particular those in whose midst they were living. He was speaking to them about tawhid and its importance and virtues, and about shirk and its dangers and consequences. He explained to them that which perhaps was obscure to them, or hidden from them by the evil scholars and callers of fitnah – those who fabricate for them a religion that pleases the mushrikin, while endeavoring to accumulate followers and adherents. Macreme found in his speech – which he based on the Quran and the sayings of the Prophet g – an authentic explanation of the reality of the relationship between the Muslims and the mushrikin, and a clarification of the reality of tawhid, without which the worship of Allah would not be correct. And so he stuck to him the entire period of his i’tikaf in the masjid, where he repented to Allah c from what he was once upon, and resolved to begin a new life as a true Muslim. His relationship with this brother continued over the following period of time, and so he informed him about himself, and narrated to him his story and informed him about his previous life, insisting upon him his willingness to help in serving the religion into which had entered anew after having spent many years as an apostate from it, being heedless of its orders and its prohibitions. A Step on the Path of Jihad What Macreme didn’t know about this young man was that he was connected to a group of French youth who supported the mujahidin, endeavored to make hijrah to the arenas of jihad, and were in search of money to support the mujahidin. One of these groups was able to stumble upon a lucrative target, a major drug dealer who had hidden in his house a large sum of money amounting to more 200,000 Euros. They monitored him for some days, watching his movements and his house. And thus they prepared the plan to storm him in his house where they intended take all his money while threatening him with a weapon. With most of those possessing experience in this field, it was due to their having entered into the world of robbery and gangs in their previous lives, but the assault this time differed as it was a form of worship by which they sought to draw closer to Allah c, not as a means to increase in indulgence in disobedience and corruption. Instead, their goal in this operation was to acquire a sufficient amount of money in order to assist some of the brothers in making hijrah to one of the arenas of jihad, while sending what remained of it to support the mujahidin. What they were lacking was a trustworthy young man endowed with bravery and courage, who would take up the responsibility of getting them away from the area of the operation in the event of either their success of failure. And so their friend – the caller to Islam – directed them to Macreme, explaining to them his praiseworthy characteristics and his history in this field, and subsequently arranged for them to meet him. After becoming acquainted with him and building trust with him they presented to him their objective and the anticipated plan. Macreme considered it for a while, and as was his nature when a friend would ask for his help he agreed to assist them with anything they wanted, and to secure for them what they needed in terms of a vehicle and a weapon, amongst other things. On the planned day of the operation the group made their way to the target house where they waited for many hours, until they were compelled to vacate the area out of fear that members of the police force might suspect them. The target didn’t show up at his home that day, but the young men resolved to return to him another time. Days passed and the operation was called off, but the group became strengthened in their relationship with Macreme, that young man who had repented to Allah seeking to begin a new life as a slave of Allah c, who was attentive to learning his religion, and whose loyalty had become solely reserved for every adherent to Islam out of love for them and out of a desire to extend help to the needy among them, especially since he possessed much wealth, which he was now determined to spend in obedience to Allah c and for His cause, and in an endeavor to help the sinners among them rid themselves of their sins and help the murtaddin who associate themselves with Islam rid themselves of their apostasy, all out of his gratefulness to Allah for having blessed him with guidance. There were two now choices before this group, either to flee to the arenas of jihad that they may fight over there, or that they carry out an operation inside France against the belligerent Christians. However, many factors prevented them from jihad for Allah’s cause, and so they decided at that time to busy themselves with d’awah, waiting until Allah prepared for them to be guided forward. A Car Garage – The First Project after Guidance Macreme, who also went by the name Abu Mujahid, decided to persue a financial project that would suffice his living expenses and at the same time secure for his brothers work and prevent them from having to work for the kuffar, while also being a means by which they could make da’wah to Allah c. He decided to open a garage for car repairs and for selling spare parts. He invested most of his money and appointed his brothers as workers therein, despite them having no previous experience in this field. He taught them the fundamentals of administrative work, which he had mastered through his experience and due to his natural disposition. He placed all of them in top positions within the business, while placing under their supervision a number of skilled workers to carry out the work. And thus people arrived, requesting the services of the garage, due to what they found therein of workers true to their promises and honest in their work. During this period, Abu Mujahid would take advantage of his time at work to serve the religion as much as he could, and despite his newness to Islam and his limited knowledge he wouldn’t let any opportunity to call his customers and his friends to Allah pass him by, specifically focusing on the youth, many of whom used to look up to him as an example, due to his previous fame in the criminal world. He would advise them to avoid the path of delinquency, and warn them from getting involved in the affair of drugs – frightening them with Allah’s punishment – and calling them to adhere to Islam and embark upon the straight path. He was also a resort for every Muslim who was in need, or who sought advice concerning his work, and thus he would strive to tend to their needs and ease their affairs, and would even offer money so that they could initiate their own private projects and earn a living. Above all that he would not be stingy with money when it was requested from him for the cause of da’wah or in support of those seeking hijrah for Allah’s cause, and at the same time would support any jihadi work in France – especially after the commencement of the jihad in Sham, where his brothers were calling to hijrah and jihad and assisting anyone who was determined to embark on the path – asking Allah to facilitate for them the way and to relieve them of those that sought to obstruct and hinder them from joining the mujahidin. In the Footsteps of ‘Uthman  Allah decreed victory and consolidation for the Islamic State, whereby they established the religion, and revived the Khilafah, and Amirul-Muminin came out to address the people and encourage the Muslims to perform hijrah and jihad – giving them the glad tidings that there was for them a state for them to go to, and an imam to fight behind. This address became a motivational factor in the life of Abu Mujahid and his brothers, and they were no longer able to bear patiently living in the lands of kufr after having become certain that Allah had blessed his slaves with Dar al-Islam, in which His shari’ah was being applied and His laws were elevated. Thus, it became the main objective of the group to make hijrah from France while hidden from the watchful eyes of the intelligence apparatus that had been monitoring them, as some of them had already been prohibited from traveling outside of the country. Likewise, they sought to incite as many youth as possible to hijrah, fearing that the route might close after their arrival to the Islamic State and that communication with them may become difficult after hijrah. So the brothers began to prepare for hijrah while likewise preparing their families for departure. They began going around to all of the people whom they trusted and knew from among the youth, inciting them to make hijrah. Abu Mujahid would sit the brothers down, reminding them of the virtues of hijrah and the blessings of living under the shade of the Shari’ah, and raising one’s children in Dar al-Islam. If he saw any brother finding excuses in worldly factors that were obstructing him he would immediately see it as his duty to remove these preventative factors by any means possible. So if anyone was prohibited from traveling he would purchase for them a forged passport – regardless of the expense – and if anyone didn’t possess the money to pay for the costs of traveling he would promise to cover their expenses, however large the family, while also offering to purchase for them a car to embark on the journey if needed. And if anyone was in debt he would cover their debt, however large the sum, and this was besides purchasing whatever they required of clothing and other means of preparation for travel and hijrah. In addition to all of that, he spent a large amount of money purchasing electronic gadgets and equipment, as well as computer devices requested by some of the brothers so that they could use them in service of the religion of Allah as soon as they arrived to the Islamic State. Consequently, all of the brothers around him began to feel that this man’s ambition was to spend his wealth in Allah’s cause, and eventually they began comparing his actions to those of ‘Uthman , who financed the entire Muslim army with his own personal wealth, seeking the pleasure of the Lord of the creation. Hijrah in Allah’s Path The families were prepared for hijrah in Allah’s cause and a journey to Dar al-Islam, with the men being amongst those most monitored by the security apparatus. Thus, it was necessary for the muhajirin to organize their affair of traveling well so that the mushrikin would not catch on to them and subsequently hinder them from Allah’s path, standing between them and the land of the Islamic State. The brothers continued their work at the garage right up to the day of travel, while the families had prepared to depart upon the arrival of the men from work. They would depart in vehicles, with the families being transported in separate vehicles, each taking different routes, and passing through various countries until they reached Greece, where they would cross the European border into Turkey, and from there into Sham. As was his norm, Abu Mujahid had organized everything for the journey and prepared for it everything the journey would require in order to ensure it would be successful, regardless of the costs he incurred. He articulated a convincing story in order to avoid attracting the attention of those monitoring them and avoid raising the suspicions of any snoopers. He put in place a comprehensive plan, covering everything from the moment of their departure from France up to the moment of their arrival in Dar al-Islam, with the exception of the most important step of the journey, which was the point where they would make contact with the brothers in the Islamic State, so that they could assist in overcoming the dangerous obstacles on the way. And so he placed his trust in Allah, that He might guide him and assist him in making contact with them upon their arrival in Turkey, hastening the departure for fear that the doors of hijrah might close before them. The plan which had been laid down for the journey by its amir, Abu Mujahid, dictated that the families be separated from the brothers who were well-known to the authorities and instead be sent with a brother and his family who were not known, so that they could cross the border with them on a bus purchased by Abu Mujahid for this purpose. Additionally, he purchased a nice car for himself and some of the brothers well-known to the intelligence services as part of the disguise which the group had planned, which was that they would make themselves out to be businessmen wishing to travel to Turkey in order to make some business deals there. Likewise, they prepared for this the appropriate clothing and documentation that would support their claims, with the addition of forged passports required for crossing the borders. The convoy succeeded in passing through Italy and the countries of the Balkans, arriving in Greece where the most dangerous stage lay ahead. When they arrived at the last point before the border Abu Mujahid pulled over the families and the rest of the brothers at one of the service stops and decided that he would be the first to attempt to cross the border – fearing that it might be dangerous – so that whatever harm there was would befall him, and the others would be saved from being apprehended. When the officials at the borders of Greece checked his passport and compared it with the pictures present with them, one of them returned to inform him that he should return to where he came from, and not to even dream of attempting to cross the border again. Abu Mujahid and those with him discovered that ten days before their departure the French government had sent their names to all of the European borders. They became confused. After this resolve to make hijrah should they turn back? And had all of their planning disappeared with the wind? Allah’s Qadar Is Dominant The world began to spin around them, and when they came to know of the notification from the French authorities they began to sense the premonition to flee from arrest, and think about leaving Greece before the French requested that they be detained and handed over to them shackled in chains. The brother who was carrying the families attempted to cross the border and by Allah’s grace succeeded, as neither he nor any of the women were on the list of those prohibited from traveling. And so they entered Turkey after Abu Mujahid gave them a large sum of money, hoping that they would wait for him there for a while, or if not that they would all enter into Dar al-Islam without him and the other brothers. Abu Mujahid carried the responsibility of this large group of Muslims, and so his main concern was that the families arrive to the lands of the Islamic State, and thereafter, he and those with him would be relived and have more options before them – either they would organize their affair to somehow join them, or they would return to France where they would initiate their jihad work, in the lands of the Crusaders who wage war on the Islamic State and prevent them from making hijrah to it. The qadar of Allah was concealing for those muhajirin a new hope of attaining salvation from their plight after they had despaired of their plan and placed their reliance on Allah c, disavowing themselves of their strength and ability, for they had met another French brother on their journey who recognized them even though they didn’t recognize him, and who stuck to them despite their attempts to get away from him fearing that he may be under surveillance or that he might attract attention due to his long beard and Islamic appearance, which was apparent to anyone who saw him. He was a muhajir to the Islamic State just like them, but unlike them, the chance to take the necessary security measures didn’t present itself to him, nor did the opportunity to take strong precautions. He accompanied them at the last juncture of their journey and was compelled to remain with them after he sent his family along with their families, with all of them hoping that Allah would protect them from Greece’s police and facilitate for them the path to cross the border. It was Allah’s mercy that He facilitated for this small group of muhajirin a way to communicate with one of the Islamic State’s hijrah coordinators, whom this brother had secured contact with before his departure from France. So they contacted him and explained their situation, and requested his assistance in their exiting Greece as quickly as possible, fearing that the Crusaders would stumble upon them and arrest them. And so the hijrah coordinator promised them good news, and they remained patient awaiting his reply. It was only a matter of days before they crossed the border into Turkey leaving behind them the fancy cars and equipment, preferring to flee from arrest above all else. They arrived in Istanbul and there they met up with their families, where Abu Mujahid decided to send the brothers to cross the border altogether, himself waiting behind in order to organize the crossing of one of the brothers who was stuck in Greece – adamant that he would not enter Dar al-Islam without him – for he had resolved that he would be with the last group to enter the Islamic State, and that he wouldn’t achieve his dream of entering it until he was confident that all of those muhajirin over whose safe arrival he had assumed responsibly since they first agreed to make hijrah with him had made it to their destination. Eventually the members of the group entered with their families, and how greatly they rejoiced when their brothers from among the soldiers of the Islamic State received them at the borders. They raced to contact their amir Abu Mujahid and gave him the glad tidings that they had arrived and had met with the brothers. He couldn’t keep himself from requesting from them – as his weeping broke up his words – that they send his salams to every soldier of the Khalifah that they see, and that they make du’a for the brother that was still stuck in Greece, that Allah may facilitate for him the way to join up with them. When the problems amassed for the brother in Greece, and his numerous attempts to cross the border were continuously hindered, he insisted that Abu Mujahid no longer wait for him and that he race to complete the remainder of his journey immediately. Under his insistence, Abu Mujahid agreed after sending him a large sum of money in order to organize his and his family’s affairs and to utilize during their period of waiting. Finally… In Dar al-Islam At last, Abu Mujahid al-Faransi arrived in Dar al-Islam and found his brothers from among the soldiers of the Islamic State waiting for him at the border with their distinguished clothing, their black masks, and the appearance that he had long seen in the Islamic State’s video releases. He embraced them, and they likewise embraced him with brotherly love, for his story had preceded him to the Islamic State along with his brothers who had arrived before him and had narrated the story of his hijrah, telling of their amir who spent everything he possessed for the sake of helping them make hijrah to Dar al-Islam. They had likewise revealed to the brothers in the Islamic State some aspects of his character and advised them to benefit from him in any jihad-related work against France. And so Abu Mujahid became a soldier of the Khilafah after completing his shar’i and military training, and began working in one of the Islamic State’s dawawin, advising his brothers in various areas, benefiting them with what he possessed of experience in business and project management, and aiding his brothers in charge of external operations. He would offer all his effort, wealth, and information in any jihad-related work that targeted the Crusaders in France. His soul longed to fight for the cause of Allah c, so he became among the best of soldiers in the battalions of Khayr Wilayah, taking part in several of the Khilafah army’s battles against the Nusayri army. He then transferred to Dimashq Wilayah, where he spent his days as a murabit in the deserts of Sham, with the desert sun and the desert sands scorching his face, and the desert cold nipping at his bones, and he took part in battles and carried out assaults alongside other heroic mujahidin. Abu Mujahid was generous and giving in France, and his generosity only increased in Dar al-Islam. He would not find any opportunity to aid any of his brothers except that he would take advantage of it, offering as much as he was able to and focusing his efforts in that regard on the widows and orphans of the shuhada, checking on their condition and aiding them with his person and wealth. Abu Mujahid, the simple caller to Islam whose modest speech would attract the youth to him in the suburbs of Paris, continued in his habit, taking advantage of any situation he would find himself in with the mujahidin or the general Muslim masses in order to command good, forbid evil, and call them to following the Sunnah. He would not grow weary of standing with a seller in his shop for hours calling him to Allah and inciting him to wage jihad for His sake, to the point that his friends would complain that he was delaying them if they were on a journey, or would complain that they needed to hurry if they were on their way somewhere. He would admonish them for that, and remind them that he used to be heedless of the religion – just like these people he was advising – until Allah prepared for him someone who would remind him of Allah and call him to his Lord. He would tell them that it was their duty to thank Allah for His blessing by calling the people to Him and striving to guide them. After Sacrificing His Wealth… He Also Sacrificed His Life for the Sake of Allah As the soldiers of the Islamic State were conducting an operation in order to break the siege on Ghoutah in Dimashq – an attack that targeted the Sin and Damir airbases, the city of Damir, and the area of the thermal plant as well as other areas, and which was halted due to an agreement made between the apostate Sahwat in East Qalamun and the Nusayri army in order to disrupt the attack and target the mujahidin’s supply routes in the area – Abu Mujahid was carrying out an attack with his brothers in the are of the thermal plant southeast of Dimashq. During the course of clashes, a Nusayri tank targeted their position and he was critically wounded in both his head and his hand. He lost consciousness as a result, and when he came to, he found that he had lost his right hand, which had been severed after the tank shell exploded in front of his face. But losing his hand would not stop him from continuing to wage jihad for the cause of Allah, nor would it prevent him from spending his wealth in order to seek the pleasure of His Lord. Rather, he would spend his recovery period anticipating his return to the arenas of battle, and he declined to take on any administrative work that would be suitable for him given his new medical condition, insisting instead on heading out for battle once more as soon as his situation permitted. He also exchanged his Russian assault rifle for a smaller, lighter American one so that he would be able to fight with one hand. When it reached him that his brothers were preparing for an attack on a Sahwah position in East Qalamun, he prepared to head out quickly and traveled in order to join his battalion without informing any of his friends lest they keep him back and delay him from the battle on account of his health or due to their need for him to take on any other work. The soldiers of the Islamic State were punishing the murtaddin in battle and capturing their positions in the Batra mountains, and were advancing in the direction of their strongholds in the heart of East Qalamun when Abu Mujahid reached them and set out towards the frontlines, refusing to remain in the mujahidin’s rear base. He was accompanied by a brother from southern France named Abu Ihsan, whom he had gotten to know in the arenas of battle. They were similar in character and got along well, and those who knew Abu Ihsan would describe him with the same traits with which they would describe Abu Mujahid, including bravery, chivalry, and an eagerness to aid Muslims and to spend everything he possessed in support of the religion and in an effort to please the Lord of the creation. As was his habit with regards to making preparations and taking precaution, Abu Mujahid refused to take the same path that the mujahidin had taken, a path that was exposed to the enemy and on which he would be targeted with heavy weapons and snipers. He preferred instead to take another path that was more rugged but was concealed from the eyes of the murtaddin. He reached the frontlines, where a group of mujahidin were targeting the murtaddin with heavy machine guns mounted on their vehicles, which were positioned on the highest hill, behind which Abu Mujahid and his companion, Abu Ihsan, took cover as soon as they arrived. The murtaddin attempted to target the vehicle that was firing on them with a guided missile, but the shooter misdirected the missile and it struck behind the hill. The missile landed at the feet of Abu Mujahid and Abu Ihsan and exploded, with its shrapnel tearing their bodies and immediately killing them – may Allah accept them both. The news reached the family of Abu Mujahid as well as his brothers, and they gave good tidings to their brothers in France of his shahadah, asking Allah to accept him. The French intelligence authorities came to know of the news and falsely announced to the French media that Abu Mujahid  had been killed in an airstrike carried out by French warplanes as he was preparing to carry out new attacks against the Crusaders in France. Abu Mujahid  was killed, and we consider him to have attained what he had yearned and wished for, to have been truthful in regards to his covenant with Allah, and to have waged jihad with his wealth and his person for the cause of Allah c. We consider him to have conducted a profitable transaction with Allah, and we ask Allah c to make Abu Mujahid from among those who have attained the great success. Allah c said, “O you who have believed, shall I guide you to a transaction that will save you from a painful punishment? [It is that] you believe in Allah and His Messenger and strive in the cause of Allah with your wealth and your lives. That is best for you, if you should know. He will forgive for you your sins and admit you to gardens beneath which rivers flow and pleasant dwellings in gardens of perpetual residence. That is the great attainment. And [you will obtain] another [favor] that you love – victory from Allah and an imminent conquest; and give good tidings to the believers” (As-Saff 10-13).