All praise is due to Allah, who said in His Book, “And when the believers saw the confederates, they said, ‘This is what Allah and His Messenger had promised us, and Allah and His Messenger spoke the truth.’ And it increased them only in faith and acceptance” (Al-Ahzab 22). I bear witness that there is no god but Allah, alone and without partner, and I bear witness that Muhammad is His slave and messenger, whom Allah sent with the sword before the Hour as a bringer of glad tidings and a warner, and as a caller to Allah with His permission and an illuminating lamp. Through him Allah established the proof, clarified the correct path, and brought triumph to the true religion. He waged jihad in the path of Allah until the religion became upright by him. May Allah’s blessings and abundant peace be upon him, and upon his family. As for what follows: Indeed, from the sunnah (established way) of Allah  which neither alters nor changes is that He tests His believing slaves, as He  has informed us with His statement, “Do the people think that they will be left to say, ‘We believe’ and they will not be tried? But We have certainly tried those before them, and Allah will surely make evident those who are truthful, and He will surely make evident the liars” (Al-Ankabut 2-3). He  also said, “And if Allah had willed, He could have taken vengeance upon them [Himself], but [He ordered armed struggle] to test some of you by means of others. And those who are killed in the cause of Allah - never will He waste their deeds” (Muhammad 4). Thus, it was it was a must for the believer to accustom himself to facing trials. It is mentioned in the qudsi hadith which the Messenger g narrates from his Lord , “Indeed, my Lord commanded me to teach you what you are ignorant of, from among that which He taught me today. [He said,] ‘Every wealth which I grant to [My] slave is halal. Indeed, I created all My slaves inclining to tawhid, and indeed the devils came to them and took them away from their religion, forbade from them what I had permitted for them, and ordered them to ascribe partners to me for whom I have not revealed any authority.’ And indeed Allah looked to the people of the earth and detested them – the Arabs among them and the non-Arabs – except for some who remained from among the people of the Scripture, and He said, ‘I have only sent you in order to try you and to try by way of you, and I have revealed to you a book which water cannot wash (i.e. which will be preserved in the people’s breasts), and which you will read while asleep and while awake (i.e. with ease).’ And indeed Allah commanded me to burn Quraysh, so I said, ‘My Lord, then they will split my head like a piece of bread.’ He said, ‘Expel them as they expelled you, raid them and we will aid you, spend and We shall spend on you, send forth an army and We shall send forth five of its like, and fight those who disobey you with those who obey you’” (Reported by Muslim). And these trials which the Islamic State is passing through today – of the gathering of the paths of kufr and the factions against it – are but an affirmation of that promise. So we do not say except as our righteous predecessors from among the companions of Allah’s Messenger g said when they saw the confederates, “‘This is what Allah and His Messenger had promised us, and Allah and His Messenger spoke the truth.’ And it increased them only in faith and acceptance” (Al-Ahzab 22). And indeed, Allah revealed in Surat Al-Baqarah, “Or do you think that you will enter Paradise while such [trial] has not yet come to you as came to those who passed on before you? They were touched by poverty and hardship and were shaken until [even their] messenger and those who believed with him said, ‘When is the help of Allah?’ Unquestionably, the help of Allah is near” (Al-Baqarah 214). Thus, Allah  clarified, while denouncing those who thought otherwise, that they would not enter Paradise except after having been tried as these nations before had been, with poverty and need, with agony and illness, and with being shaken by the enemy. Then, when the ahzab came in the year of the [battle of the] trench and they saw them, they said, ‘This is what Allah and His Messenger had promised us, and Allah and His Messenger spoke the truth,’ and they knew that Allah had tried them with being shaken, and that there had come to them the likes of what had come to those who had passed on before them. And it did not increase them except in faith and in acceptance of Allah’s judgment and command. And this is the condition of the truthful Muslims today, just as it has been the condition of the truthful Muslims in every era. Indeed, these trials – through which the Muslims in the Khilafah State have been afflicted, with these corrupting disbelievers who are attacking the shari’ah of Islam – have a similar precedent in the era of Allah’s Messenger g through which Allah tried His Prophet and the believers, and on account of which He  revealed clear surahs and ayat, and the books of the Sunnah are abound with the mention of many of these events. Imam Ibn Taymiyyah said, “Indeed, the texts of the Book and the Sunnah which represent the call of Muhammad g encompass all of mankind, and Allah’s covenants in His Book and in the sunnah of His Messenger encompass the last of this ummah just as they encompassed the first of this ummah. And Allah only narrated to us the stories of those nations that came before us so that they would serve as a lesson for us, such that we would compare our condition to theirs and measure the last of the nations in accordance with the first of them, and thus the believer from among the latecomers would have something resembling what the believers from among the predecessors had.” This marks the end of his words. In the Battle of Badr, our Lord told us of the condition of our prophet g and his noble companions with their enemy, saying, “Already there has been for you a sign in the two armies which met - one fighting in the cause of Allah and another of disbelievers. They saw them [to be] twice their [own] number by [their] eyesight. But Allah supports with His victory whom He wills. Indeed in that is a lesson for those of vision” (Al ‘Imran 13). He also told us of their besieging of Bani an Nadir, saying, “It is He who expelled the ones who disbelieved among the People of the Scripture from their homes at the first gathering. You did not think they would leave, and they thought that their fortresses would protect them from Allah; but [the decree of] Allah came upon them from where they had not expected, and He cast terror into their hearts [so] they destroyed their houses by their [own] hands and the hands of the believers. So take warning, O people of vision” (Al-Hashr 2). So He commanded us to take a lesson from the conditions of those who’ve preceded us in this nation as well as those nations came before us. He  then mentioned in more than one place in His Book that His sunnah concerning the nations is a sunnah that remains consistent and continuous. He  said, “And if those who disbelieve had fought you, they would have turned their backs [in flight]. Then they would not find a protector or a helper. [This is] the established way of Allah which has occurred before. And never will you find in the way of Allah any change” (Al-Fath 22-23). So every mujahid in the Islamic State should take a lesson from the sunnah of Allah concerning His slaves, especially during the likes of this unjust campaign against the Dar al-Islam and the territory of the Khilafah. For nifaq has reared its head, kufr has revealed its fangs, and the munafiqin and those in whose hearts is disease have begun to think that Allah and His Messenger have not promised them anything but delusion, and that the party of Allah and His Messenger will never return to their families, and this has been made fair seeming in their hearts, and they made an assumption of evil and have become a ruined people. And indeed, the lesson to take from these tremendous events is that just as the Muslims were tried along with the Prophet g in the Battle of Ahzab (the confederates) – and Allah has revealed in that regard a surah which includes mention of this battle, in which Allah aided His trustworthy party and honored His army, and in which He alone defeated the confederates without any fighting taking place, but rather, through the believers remaining steadfast against their enemy – likewise is the situation today in Raqqah, Mosul, and Tal’afar, fully resembling that condition. The people today are divided into the same categories in which they were divided in the year of the trench, for the Muslims in the Battle of Ahzab had all the mushrikin around them rallying against them. They came to them in Madinah in their multitudes in order to completely uproot them. Quraysh and their allies from Bani Asad, Ashja’, Fazarah, and other tribes of Najd gathered together, and the Jews of Quraydhah and Nadir likewise gathered together, for the Prophet g had expelled Bani an-Nadir prior to that, as Allah  mentioned in Surat al-Hashr. So they came in the confederation to Quraydhah while Quraydhah had a treaty with the Prophet g and were residing in his vicinity near Madinah. Bani an-Nadir continued to try to persuade them until eventually Quraydhah breached the treaty and entered into the confederation. So these large confederates came together and they heavily surpassed the Muslims in terms of numbers and equipment. So the Prophet g sent the women and children up to the elevated parts of Madinah, and he set their backs to Mount Sal’ and dug a trench between him and the enemy, with the enemy having surrounded them from above and from below. It was an enemy that had severe enmity towards them, and had they overpowered the believers they would have inflicted on them a tremendous massacre. And in these events today, the enemies – including the Crusaders, the atheists, and the Rafidah and other murtaddin – have rallied against us and set out with their planes, battleships, and everything else they possess of strength, heading towards the lands of the Muslims and seeking to take control of them. They have surrounded these lands from all sides, as our Lord said concerning the confederates, “When they came at you from above you and from below you, and when eyes shifted [in fear], and hearts reached the throats and you assumed about Allah [various] assumptions. There the believers were tested and shaken with a severe shaking” (Al-Ahzab 10-11). In interpreting this ayah, Imam Ibn Kathir  said, “Allah  states – informing us of that situation, when the confederates descended around Madinah and the Muslims were confined in the utmost of hardship, and Allah’s Messenger g was among them – that they were tried, tested, and severely shaken. So at that point, nifaq emerged, and those in whose hearts was disease gave voice to what they had within them. As for the munafiq, his nifaq emerged, and as for the one in whose heart was doubt, his condition became weak so he took in what he found within himself of evil whispers due to the weakness of his iman and the severity of the constrained situation he was in.” This marks the end of his  words. Today, the people have traversed all paths. The confused and fainthearted have made assumptions of evil. This one thinks that none of the mujahidin will be able to stand before the confederates and that the Muslims will be wiped out, and this one thinks that if they were stand before them, the confederates would completely break them and surround them just as a bracelet encircles a wrist, and this one thinks that the lands of Iraq and Sham, and other lands of Islam, are no longer a refuge for the Muslims and are no longer under the Islamic State, so he considers fleeing to the lands of kufr, and this one thinks that what the scholars of prophetic traditions and hadith have informed him of glad tidings are nothing but false wishes and absurd superstitions. Allah  then mentions the statement of a group of munafiqin who were in the camp of the Muslims in the Battle of Ahzab: “And when a faction of them said, ‘O people of Yathrib, there is no place for you to take up position [here], so return [home]’” (Al-Ahzab 13). The Prophet g had made camp with the Muslims at Mount Sal’ and dug the trench between him and the enemy. So a group of them said, “There is no place for you to take up position here today due to the large numbers of the enemy, so return to Madinah.” And it was said [that the meaning is], “You have no ability to remain upon the religion of Muhammad, so return to the religion of shirk.” And it was said [that the meaning is], “You have no ability to fight, so consider being protected under their authority.” Allah  then mentioned the condition of the munafiqin in that battle as well as their statements in more than once place. Sometimes they would say, “You’re the ones who told us to take up position here and be steadfast on this front up until this time, but if we had left before this we would not have been afflicted.” And sometimes they would say, “Despite your small numbers and your weakness, you want to break the enemy. Your religion has deluded you.” This is as Allah  said, “When the hypocrites and those in whose hearts was disease said, ‘Their religion has deluded those [Muslims].’ But whoever relies upon Allah - then indeed, Allah is Exalted in Might and Wise” (Al-Anfal 49). And sometimes they would say, “You are insane and have no intellect. You want to bring destroy yourselves and destroy the people along with you.” And sometimes they would make other various types of extremely harmful statements. And after Allah  mentioned the condition of the munafiqin and the condition of the believers who remained steadfast in Surat Al-Ahzab, He encouraged His believing slaves to follow the example of His Messenger g during the likes of these events. He  said, “There has certainly been for you in the Messenger of Allah an excellent example for anyone whose hope is in Allah and the Last Day and [who] remembers Allah often” (Al-Ahzab 21). Thus, He  informed us that those who are tried by way of the enemy as Allah’s Messenger g had been have a good example in him, as they have been afflicted with the same thing he was afflicted with. As such, they should take him as an example with regards to relying on Allah and being patient, and not think that these events are intended to anger and humiliate them, for if that were the case, Allah’s Messenger g – the best of creation – would not have been tried with their likes. Rather, they are a means of achieving a high status and Allah erases one’s sins by way of them for those whose hope is in Allah and the Last Day and who remember Allah often. In interpreting this ayah, Imam Ibn Kathir  said, “This noble ayah is a main foundation with regards to taking Allah’s Messenger g as an example in one’s statements, deeds, and conditions. For this reason, Allah commanded the people to take the Prophet g as an example on the day of Ahzab with regards to his being patient, outdoing the enemy in patience, performing ribat, waging jihad, and waiting for the relief from His Lord . May Allah’s blessings and peace always be upon him until the Day of Judgment. And for this reason, Allah  said to those who grew weary, were shaken, and became troubled in their affairs on the day of Ahzab, ‘There has certainly been for you in the Messenger of Allah an excellent example,’ meaning, ‘Will you not take him as an example and emulate his merits?’ And for this reason, He said, ‘for anyone whose hope is in Allah and the Last Day and [who] remembers Allah often.’” This marks the end of his  words. And indeed, Allah dispersed the confederates in the year of the trench by way of what He sent upon them of an east wind, and by way of dividing their hearts to the point that He scattered their strength and they did not achieve any good, as in His  statement, “And Allah repelled those who disbelieved, in their rage, not having obtained any good. And sufficient was Allah for the believers in battle, and ever is Allah Powerful and Exalted in Might” (Al-Ahzab 25). So we ask Him  to disperse the confederates away from the Khilafah State just as He dispersed them away from His Prophet g and his noble companions . O Lord of the House, [we seek] forgiveness and repentance Lead us, by Your Might, to that which is correct Place on us, by Your grace, the crown of victory And place, on their multitudes of kufr, torment For the wings of every individual have been humbled And we have bowed our necks before Your Might O soldier of the Khilafah, ponder and take heed of what is taking place around you of events. Think and look, for by Allah, it is but one death and one killing, so be honored through your religion and hold onto your iman so that perhaps you would meet your Protector while He is pleased with you and while you are advancing forward, not retreating. And beware, O soldier of the Khilafah, beware of the gatherings of fitnah and avoid them, and follow the advice of your prophet g, who said, “Whoever obeys me has obeyed Allah, and whoever disobeys me has disobeyed Allah. Whoever obeys the amir has obeyed me, and whoever disobeys the amir has disobeyed me” (Reported by al- Bukhari and Muslim). And we will not miss the opportunity here to remind our mujahid brothers and the Muslims in general to take advantage of what remains of this virtuous month, about which Allah said, “The month of Ramadan [is that] in which was revealed the Quran, a guidance for the people and clear proofs of guidance and criterion” (Al-Baqarah 185), for indeed from among the blessings of Allah  on His believing slaves is that He allowed them to reach this occasion of good, so that their souls might be cleansed of that which has clung to them, thereby becoming pure, and they could race to do good deeds and take advantage of its limited number of days.The Prophet g said, “When Ramadan comes, the doors of Jannah are opened, the doors of Hellfire are closed, and the devils are chained” (Reported by al-Bukhari and Muslim). So congratulations to those whom it reaches while they have submitted their faces to Allah and are doers of good, following the path of Ibrahim inclining toward the truth. Congratulations to those who act in accordance with all the laws of Islam. Congratulations to those who remain steadfast upon the truth and take hold of the Book with strength. Congratulations to those who respond to the caller of Allah, believe in His Messengers, wage jihad against His enemies, and affirm the truthfulness of His promise. Therefore, O you soldiers of the Khilafah holding onto hot coals and remaining patient and steadfast upon the covenant, you who have known that this abode is but an abode of trial and tribulation, as Allah  said, “And We will surely test you until We make evident those who strive among you [for the cause of Allah] and the patient, and We will test your affairs” (Muhammad 31), know – may Allah have mercy on you – that today you are the battalion and vanguard of Islam in the face of the coalitions of kufr. So through your steadfastness and patience Islam will be honored and the Muslims and their state will have victory, so show Allah from yourselves good. O lions of Mosul, Raqqah, and Tal’afar, O marks of honor and glory and source of rage for the immoral, may Allah bless those forearms that maintain ablution and those bright faces. Strike the Rafidah and the murtaddin and attack them in unison, for he who resorts to his Creator and Protector will not be humiliated, and he who seeks protection from other than Him will not be honored. You are fighting in the path of Allah those who have disbelieved in Allah and are exerting yourselves as a means of attaining nearness to Allah. We consider you so and Allah is your judge. So renew and rectify your intentions, be patient upon the pain of wounds, outdo the allies of shaytan in patience and rub their noses in the dirt, and fear Allah, for truly that is the best of what you can equip yourselves with in war, and it is the best of plots, so that perhaps you might attain success. Indeed, victory requires but an hour of patience, and then the final outcome will be yours, with Allah’s permission. O soldiers of the Khilafah in the wilayas of Dijlah, Badiyah, Salahuddin, Dayala, Karkuk, North Baghdad, and Janub, and O soldiers of Islam in Fallujah, Anbar, and Furat, do not let the nights of this virtuous month pass by except that you have made the flocks of the Rafidah and murtaddin taste all manner of killing and destruction. Here they are today having entered your arena, so there is no good in a life in which the grandsons of the Majus prowl through lands which you have ruled with Allah’s Shari’ah. So set up ambushes and explosive devices, split their heads by striking them with sniper bullets, and exterminate their multitudes with a storm of explosions. O soldiers of the Khilafah in the wilayas of Halab, Khayr, Barakah, Hims, Hamah, and Dimashq, O grandsons of Khalid and Abu ‘Ubaydah, O heroes of Islam, O lions of bravery, before you are the Nusayriyyah, the atheists from among the Kurds, and the Sahwat of apostasy in Sham. Pounce on them like raging lions, and enter upon them through every door. And do not miss your share of this month, so turn to your Lord with humility, obedience, and repentance. Seek shahadah, “And hasten to forgiveness from your Lord and a garden as wide as the heavens and earth, prepared for the righteous” (Al ‘Imran 133). O soldiers of Islam in the wilayas of Sinai, Misr, Khurasan, Yemen, West Africa, Somalia, Libya, Tunisia, Jazair, and all other places, continue your jihad and adhere to ribat and to your fronts, and do not give the enemies of Allah respite for so much as an hour of the day. Strive hard to establish the shari’ah and rule of Allah in the land, for the goal of your jihad is for the religion to be entirely for Allah and for the entire earth to be ruled with Allah’s Shari’ah. O sons of the Khilafah in East Asia, we congratulate you on your conquest of the city of Marawi. Fear Allah and remain steadfast, and give thanks for the blessing which Allah has bestowed upon you. Seek Allah’s help against your enemy, for He will suffice you, and He is sufficient for you. What an excellent Protector and what an excellent Supporter. To the brave fighters and soldiers of the Khilafah from among the sons of Ahlus Sunnah in the land of Persia, may Allah bless your actions against the enemies of the religion. You have healed the people’s breasts, brought joy to the Muslims, and have wrought upon the mushrikin that which they were trying to guard against. So continue your strikes, for indeed the house of the Majusi state is weaker than the house of a spider. To our brothers in ‘aqidah and iman in Europe, America, Russia, Australia, and elsewhere, your brothers in your lands have absolved themselves of blame, so leap onto their tracks and take an example from their actions, and know that Jannah is beneath the shadows of swords. O our imprisoned brothers everywhere, by Allah we have not forgotten you for so much as a day and we will not forget you, and you have a righ  upon us. So be patient and steadfast, and do not say anything other than good, for “Indeed, the greatness of reward coincides with the greatness of the tribulation, and truly when Allah  loves a people He tries them. So whoever is pleased will have the pleasure [of Allah] and whoever is angered will have the anger [of Allah]” (Reported by at-Tirmidhi). Increase in making du’a in this blessed month that the Most Kind and All-Aware makes a way out for you, and ask Him to grant your mujahid brothers victory, steadfastness, and consolidation. With Allah’s permission, we will not spare any effort in rescuing you. Our Lord, forgive us our sins and the excess committed in our affairs and plant firmly our feet and give us victory over the disbelievers. And our final call is, all praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the Creation.