All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the creation. May blessings and peace be upon the seal of the prophets and messengers, Muhammad, and upon his family and all his companions. As for what follows: In this article we will discuss the ruling of giving da’wah to the asli kuffar (i.e. those who are disbelievers in origin, as opposed to those who became disbelievers after previously being Muslims) prior to fighting them. We will also discuss the ruling of giving da’wah both to those whom the da’wah has already reached and those whom it has not yet reached, prior to fighting them. We likewise discuss the evidences for these issues, as well as the evidence for initiating battle without giving da’wah to those who have already heard of the religion of Islam. We will also clarify the ruling on killing the kuffar whom the da’wah has not yet reached, and also clarify whether or not these rulings apply to the murtaddin. Rulings Related to Giving Da’wah to the Harbi (Belligerent) Kuffar What is meant by the harbi kuffar is the kuffar to whom the Muslims have not granted security through either a covenant of security, a ceasefire agreement, or a dhimmah contract. And what is meant by giving them da’wah is to call them firstly to Islam, and if they refuse, to call them to pay the jizyah, prior to fighting them. The fuqaha have stated that da’wah with them is of two types: “haqiqi” da’wah, and “hukmi” da’wah. As for “haqiqi” da’wah, it is da’wah which is given by way of speech before fighting begins, and as for “hukmi” da’wah, it is that the da’wah spreads, becomes manifest, reaches the harbi kuffar, and as a result, takes the place of haqiqi da’wah. Haqiqi Da’wah The description of haqiqi da’wah is that the Muslim leader calls the kuffar to Islam when he descends in their territory. Al-Qayrawani al-Maliki said, “And it is more beloved to us that the enemy not be fought until he is called to Allah’s religion, unless they hasten to fight us. So either they embrace Islam or pay jizyah, otherwise they are fought. And jizyah is only accepted from them if they are in a place where our authority can reach them. If, however, they are far away from us, jizyah is not accepted from them unless they move to our lands, otherwise they are fought” (Ar-Risalah by al-Qayrawani). They are first called to Islam, and their embracing of Islam is by merely pronouncing the shahadatayn (the two testimonies of faith) without having to carry out the laws, because carrying out the laws of Islam is impossible at the point of battle. So it is obligatory on them to enter Islam in that situation, and this is achieved with the pillar of the shahadatayn. Imam Malik said, “When da’wah becomes obligatory, they are only called to Islam in a general sense without mentioning the laws, unless they ask about them, in which case they should be clarified to them. Likewise, they are called to jizyah in a general sense without explaining the details and without specifying the amount, unless the Muslims are asked about that, in which case it should be clarified for them (the kuffar)” (At-Taj wal-Iklil). As for the length of the period of da’wah, some scholars said it is three continuous days, just as a murtadd is called on for three days to repent before being killed. Hukmi Da’wah Hukmi da’wah is achieved when the kuffar hear of the religion of Islam and what it calls to. Allah c said, “And this Quran was revealed to me that I may warn you thereby and whomever it reaches” (Al-An’am 19). In his tafsir, Imam at-Tabari narrates from Mujahid that he said, “‘And this Quran was revealed to me that I may warn you thereby’: ‘The Arabs,’ ‘and whomever it reaches’: ‘The non-Arabs’” (Jami’ al-Bayan fi Tawil al- Quran). Ibn ‘Abbas said, “‘And this Quran was revealed to me that I may warn you thereby’, meaning: the people of Makkah, ‘and whomever it reaches,’ meaning: if this Quran reaches anyone it is a warner for them’” (Jami’ al- Bayan by Imam at-Tabari). Abu Hurayrah narrated, that Allah’s Messenger g said, “By Him in Whose hand is Muhammad’s soul, no one from this ummah hears of me – neither Jew nor Christian – and then dies without having believed in that which I have been sent with except that he will be from among the people of Hellfire” (Reported by Muslim). Imam Ibn Taymiyyah r said, “If the da’wah of Allah’s Messenger g – the da’wah to Allah’s religion with which He sent him – reaches anyone and they do not respond to it, it is obligatory to fight them ‘until there is no fitnah and [until] the religion, all of it, is for Allah’” (Majmu’ al-Fatawa). The scholars differed with regards to giving da’wah to the kuffar before fighting them. Among them were those who stipulated that da’wah be given in all cases before fighting, regardless of whether the da’wah has reached them or has not, and this is the position of the majority of the Maliki scholars. And among the scholars are those who do not stipulate this, regardless of whether or not the da’wah has reached them. The truth, which is supported by the texts and which the majority of the scholars are upon, is that da’wah is obligatory before fighting in the case of those whom the da’wah hasn’t reached, and it is permissible – but not obligatory – in the case of those it has already reached. And our statement that it is permissible as opposed to saying that it is recommended is more correct, because if it were recommended, the Prophet g would have always carried it out. However, he left it off in many of his raids, attacking his enemies without giving da’wah, because he knew that the da’wah had reached the kuffar. However, the statement that it is recommended is also attributed to some scholars. The Evidence of Those Who Obligate Da’wah before Fighting Those Whom Da’wah Hasn’t Reached Ibn Qudamah said, “And if there are found on the remote islands he whom the da’wah hasn’t reached, it is obligatory to give him da’wah due to the statement of Allah c, ‘And never would We punish until We sent a messenger’ (Al-Isra 15)” (Al-Kafi fi Fiqh al-Imam Ahmad). This verse is taken in a general manner, so the intent is punishment in the Hereafter and punishment at the hands of the believers through fighting, as Allah c said, “Fight them; Allah will punish them by your hands” (At-Tawbah 14). And some scholars have used this verse as evidence for the condition that da’wah must be given before waging war. Sulayman Ibn Buraydah narrated from his father, who said, “Whenever Allah’s Messenger g appointed a leader over an army or a detachment, he would advise him with respect to himself to fear Allah, and would advise those with him of the Muslims with goodness. He would then say, ‘Go forth and attack in the name of Allah, for the cause of Allah. Fight he who disbelieves in Allah. Attack and do not steal from the war booty, nor commit treachery, nor mutilate a corpse, nor kill an infant. When you meet your enemy from the mushrikin, call them to three matters and accept whichever of them they agree to and withhold from fighting them: Call them to Islam. If they agree, accept it from them and withhold from fighting them. Then call them to emigrate from their land to the land of the Muhajirin, and inform them that if they do that then they will enjoy the same rights as the Muhajirin and will have the same obligations as the Muhajirin. If they refuse to emigrate, then inform them that they will be like the Bedouins of the Muslims; they will be subject to the rule of Allah, which the believers are subject to, and they will have no share in the war booty and spoils unless they wage jihad with the Muslims. If they refuse, then seek from them the payment of jizyah. If they agree, accept it from them and withhold from fighting them. If they refuse, seek Allah’s aid and fight them’” (Reported by Muslim). In this hadith is an indication that it is obligatory to call to Islam those whom the da’wah hasn’t reached before fighting them. Ibn ‘Abbas narrated, saying, “Allah’s Messenger never fought a people except that he gave them da’wah” (Reported by Imam Ahmad and others). In his sahih, Imam al-Bukhari placed the following chapter title: “Chapter: The Call to the Jews and Christians, and the Matter over Which They Are Fought, and What the Prophet g Wrote to Khosrau and Caesar, and Da’wah before Fighting.” When we say that da’wah is obligatory with respect to those whom it hasn’t reached, this obligation is bound by two conditions. The first is that they do not hasten to fight the Muslims, and the second is that the Muslims are safe from their plotting and deception. As for the da’wah that is permissible, from among its evidences is the following: Abu Hazim narrated, saying, “Sahl Ibn Sa’d  informed me, saying, ‘The Prophet g said on the day of Khaybar, ‘I will surely give the banner tomorrow to a man through whom Allah will grant victory – [a man] who loves Allah and His Messenger, and whom Allah and His Messenger love.’ So the people spent the night wondering which of them would be given the banner, and each of them hoped that he would be the one. The Prophet g then said, ‘Where is ‘Ali?’ It was said, ‘He is complaining of pain in his eyes.’ So the Prophet g spat in his eyes and made du’a for him, and he became well, as if he’d never had any pain. The Prophet g then gave him the banner. ‘Ali said, ‘Should I fight them until they become like us?’ So he said, ‘Proceed forth with ease until you descend in their territory. Then call them to Islam and inform them of what is obligatory upon them, for by Allah, if Allah were to guide through you a single man it would be better than having the best of camels’’” (Reported by al-Bukhari and Muslim). This da’wah to the Jews took place despite them having knowledge of the message of the Prophet g and what he wanted of them due to them having lived among the Sahabah  and the da’wah having reached them. From among the evidences used by those who state that it is permissible to fight the kuffar whom the da’wah has already reached without giving them da’wah again is what was reported by al-Bukhari from Anas, who said, “When Allah’s Messenger g would raid a people, he would not attack until morning. If he heard the people making adhan, he would withhold, and if he didn’t hear an adhan from them he would attack at the onset of the morning” (Reported by al-Bukhari). This hadith is evidence of the permissibility of fighting those whom the da’wah has reached before giving them da’wah, as mentioned by the scholars. Sa’b Ibn Juthamah narrated, saying, “The Prophet g was asked about the children of the mushrikin, as they (the Muslims) would raid them at night and wind up killing their women and children. So he said, ‘They are of them’” (Reported by Muslim). Concerning this hadith, the scholars said that it shows the permissibility of attacking the kuffar by surprise. And indeed, the Prophet g attacked the tribe of Bani al-Mustaliq as they were heedless, taking their livestock out to drink water. Likewise is the case with assassinations, which the companions of Allah’s Messenger g carried out when they killed some Jews. Al-Bukhari reported from al-Bara Ibn ‘Azib , who said, “Allah’s Messenger g dispatched a group of Ansar to Abu Rafi’, so ‘Abdullah Ibn ‘Atik entered upon him in his home at night and killed him as he was sleeping.” What is apparent from the hadith is that it is not a condition to give da’wah before fighting those whom the da’wah has reached. And al Bukhari gave this hadith the title, “Chapter on Killing the Sleeping Mushrik.” And likewise is what is reported in the Sahihayn from Jabir Ibn ‘Abdillah , who said, “Allah’s Messenger g said, ‘Who will deal with Ka’b Ibn al-Ashraf? For indeed, he has harmed Allah and His Messenger.’ So Muhammad Ibn Maslamah stood up and said, ‘O Allah’s Messenger, would you like me to kill him?’ He said, ‘Yes.’ So he said, ‘Allow me to say something.’ He said, ‘Say it…’” Al-Bukhari titled the chapter for this hadith, “Massacring the Belligerent Kuffar,” and in this is evidence that it is not a condition to give da’wah to those whom the da’wah has reached prior to killing them. Abu ‘Uthman an-Nahdi, one of the senior Tabi’in, narrated, saying, “We would carry out raids and sometimes we would give da’wah and other times we would not give da’wah” (Sharh Ma’ani al-Athar). This is evidence that the Sahabah would both give da’wah and not give da’wah prior to fighting, which clarifies that giving da’wah is not a condition for fighting with regards to those whom the da’wah has already reached. Yahya Ibn Sa’id narrated, saying, “There is no problem with seeking out the enemy’s weaknesses night and day because the da’wah to Islam has reached them.” “And Ahlul-Kitab and the Majus are fought and are not given da’wah because the da’wah has already reached them” (Mukhtasar al-Khiraqi). The majority of the scholars and imams view that the statement that da’wah is obligatory before fighting was only in the beginning of Islam, and that after the da’wah of Islam became widespread it was no longer obligatory to give da’wah before fighting, and this is what Muslim reported in his sahih from Ibn ‘Abbas, who said, “I wrote to Nafi’ asking him about giving da’wah before fighting. So he wrote back to me, saying, ‘That was only in the beginning of Islam. Allah’s Messenger attacked Bani al- Mustaliq as they were heedless, taking their livestock out to drink water. He killed their fighting-age men and took their women and children as slaves, and on that day he enslaved Juwayriyah Bint al-Harith.’” Imam ash-Shafi’i said, “I do not know anyone whom the da’wah has not reached today, unless they are a mushrik people living beyond our enemies whom we are fighting. So perhaps in their case the da’wah hasn’t reached them, such as if they are living in the lands beyond the Romans, the Turks, or the Khazar and are a people we do not know” (Al-Umm). Imam Ahmad said, “The da’wah has reached everyone and I do not know anyone today who must be called. The da’wah was only in the beginning of Islam” (Al-Kafi fi Fiqh al-Imam Ahmad by Ibn Qudamah). If we were to assume that there exists someone who has not heard of Islam, it would be obligatory to give him da’wah before fighting him. However, in our present day reality, with the world being one small village and the entire world waging war against the Khilafah State, it is unlikely that there is anyone who has not heard of Islam or whom the da’wah hasn’t reached. And if Imam Ahmad and Imam ash-Shafi’i concluded that the da’wah had reached everyone in their era, then this is even more applicable in our present day reality. The Ruling on Fighting before Giving Da’wah to Those Whom the Da’wah Hasn’t Reached The majority of the scholars have concluded that if the Muslims raid a people whom the da’wah hasn’t reached and kill them, there is nothing upon them of diyah (blood money) or kaffarah (atonement) because kufr renders an individual’s blood permissible to shed. However, they would be sinful for leaving off the obligation of da’wah which the Prophet g has ordered to be carried out with respect to those whom the da’wah hasn’t reached. Sahnun al-Maliki said, “If the Muslims fight a people whom the da’wah hasn’t reached and they don’t give them da’wah, there is nothing upon the Muslims of diyah or kaffarah” (At-Taj wal-Iklil). Ibn Qudamah al-Hanbali said, “He whom the da’wah hasn’t reached from among the kuffar – if such a person is found – is not allowed to be killed until he is given da’wah. If he is killed before being given da’wah and without having been granted a covenant of security, there is no liability due in his case because he has neither a contract nor a covenant of security, so he is more resembling of the wife and small child of a harbi kafir, and killing him was only forbidden so that the da’wah could reach him. And this is the statement of Abu Hanifah” (Al-Mughni by Ibn Qudamah). Al-Marghinani al-Hanafi said, “And if he fights them before giving them da’wah, he is sinful due to the prohibition, but there is no liability that must be paid as there is no ‘ismah (something that protects their blood from becoming permissible to shed) – which is either [embracing] the religion or secluding oneself in one’s own home – so it becomes akin to the killing of the kuffar’s women and children” (Al-Hidayah Sharh Bidayat al-Mubtadi). Imam ash-Shafi’i r had a difference of opinion on this issue, and what’s correct is the statement of the majority of the scholars. Two Points to Note The first point: Everything that has preceded of discussion on the rulings related to giving da’wah to the harbi kuffar, as well as the details of their varying circumstances, only applies in offensive fighting, whereby the Muslims are fighting the kuffar in their own lands. As for defensive fighting, whereby the kuffar fight the Muslims in the Muslims’ lands, then it’s a given that da’wah is not obligatory in such a case since the kuffar are the ones seeking the Muslims for battle, not the ones being sought. Imam Malik said, “As for the case of those who approach the paths [of the Muslims], then da’wah is cast aside due to their knowledge of what they are being called to, and due to what they are upon of hatred and enmity towards the religion and its people, and the length of their resisting and waging war against the armies [of the Muslims]” (Al-Mudawwanah al-Kubra). This statement of Imam Malik is with regards to those kuffar who march towards and approach the lands of the Muslims, wanting to fight them, so how then with regards to those who descend upon the lands of the Muslims, seeking to render those lands permissible to violate? Yahya Ibn Sa’id said, “It is obligatory upon the Muslims to not descend upon any enemy fighter in any fortress who they hope will respond to them except that they give him da’wah. As for those who would come to [invade] you if you were to sit in your land or who would fight you if you went to them, then these ones are not given da’wah” (Al-Mudawwanat al-Kubra). And likewise, if they hasten to engage in battle when the Muslims arrive in their lands, it is no longer obligatory to give them da’wah, and they are to be fought, and if they hasten to fight us in our own lands, then this ruling is even more applicable. Imam Ibnul-Qayyim said, “The Muslims give da’wah to the kuffar to Islam before fighting them. This is obligatory if the da’wah has not reached them, and it recommended if the da’wah has already reached them. This is the case if the Muslims are the ones invading the kuffar. If, however, the kuffar invade them in their own lands, then they can fight them without giving them da’wah because they would be repelling them from themselves and from their sanctities” (Ahkam Ahl adh-Dhimmah). The second point: The preceding discussion on the rulings related to giving da’wah before fighting is only with regards to the asli kuffar (those who were not previously Muslims) and not with regards to the murtadd kuffar, and this is because the murtadd was previously a Muslim, so the da’wah reaching him is something that has already occurred, and as such, he takes the same ruling as the harbi kafir whom the da’wah has reached. And the murtaddin fall into one of two situations: The first situation is that they are overpowered and subdued. Imam Ibn Taymiyyah said, “The meaning of overpowering them is that it is possible to carry out the hadd on them due to the establishment evidence against them or due to their own confession, along with them being detained by the Muslims” (As-Sarim al-Maslul). With regards to this situation, the majority of scholars view that it is obligatory to make istitabah of them (i.e. to demand that they repent) before killing them. So either they repent, or they are killed. Imam Ibn Taymiyyah said, “And with regards to the murtaddin, they are divided into those whose riddah (apostasy) is mujarradah (comparatively less severe) and as such, are killed if they do not repent, and those whose riddah is mughalladhah (severe) and as such, are killed without making istitabah of them” (Majmu’ al-Fatawa). The second situation is that they resist with strength and force, or by [fleeing to] dar al-harb, which is any land in which laws other than the laws of Islam are superior, and as such, [in this situation] it is not obligatory to make istitabah of them. Imam Ibn Taymiyyah said, “If the murtadd resists by going to dar al-harb, or the murtaddin are those who have strength with which they can forcefully resist the ruling of Islam, then he is to be killed without istitabah and without any hesitation” (As-Sarim al-Maslul). Ibn Qudamah said, “And likewise, if a group [of people] apostatize and forcefully resist in their land from obeying the imam of the Muslims, they lose the sanctity of their blood and wealth in their land, because the alsi kuffar have no sanctity [with regards to their blood and wealth] in their lands, so this is even more applicable to the murtadd” (Al-Mughni by Ibn Qudamah). In his commentary on the book, al-Muqni’, after mentioning that no one is to kill the murtadd other than the Imam and whoever he delegates, Ibn Muflih says, “(And if anyone other than him kills him without his permission, then he has done wrong and is to be given ta’zir) due to having wronged the Imam or his delegate (and there is no liability due on him) meaning: due on the killer, because the one killed has no sanctity (regardless of whether he was killed before or after making istitabah of him) because in general his blood is waste, and his riddah makes his blood halal and was present both before and after istitabah was made of him. And if he goes to dar al-harb, anyone can kill him and take whatever wealth he has with him without making istitabah of him” (Al- Mubdi’ fi Sharh al Muqni’). And there is ijma’ – without any difference of opinion at all – that nothing is accepted from the murtaddin other than that they return to Islam by repenting from that by which they committed kufr, or that they are killed. Imam Ibn Taymiyyah said, “The murtaddin are either fought, or they embrace Islam, and jizyah is not accepted from them” (Minhaj as-Sunnah an-Nabawiyyah). And all praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the creation. O Allah, send blessings upon our prophet, Muhammad, and upon his family and all his companions.