The people of misguidance and their followers from among the munafiqin do not cease to defame the people of iman any way they can, taking advantage of any opening they find in order to achieve this goal, so that they can accuse the Muslims of shortcomings and find fault with their state. And if they can’t find anything over which to fault them, they invent for themselves guidelines and conditions for which Allah has not revealed any evidence, and then taunt Ahlus-Sunnah for not having achieved them and for being far from reaching them. And included among these guidelines and conditions which they stipulate for the Islamic state – which they instill in the people a desire for – are matters which did not even exist in the state of the 6Prophet g, and yet if any of them were to dare to defame the prophetic state or belittle its leader and imam, no one would refrain for even a moment from making takfir of them. And likewise is that with regards to the society that lives under the shade of the Shari’ah and the rule of Islam, they stipulate conditions for it that did not previously exist in the society of the Sahabah . And we will attempt, in this article, to clarify – with Allah’s permission – some aspects of that virtuous society, emphasizing its virtue and superiority over all other societies of mankind despite having been afflicted with some of the same social illnesses that afflict all human societies in every era, including shahwat (lusts) and shubuhat (misconceptions). The Prophetic State…Which the Deviants Don’t Want The mujahid shaykh, Abu Hamzah al-Muhajir , refuted the likes of such deviants in a full speech titled, The Prophetic State, wherein he clarified the reality of the state which the Prophet gestablished in Madinah, and what it contained of painful hunger which afflicted Allah’s Messenger gand his noble companions, who were the best of the creation in the sight of Allah c. He also clarified what there was of severe poverty and widespread illnesses in Madinah, as well as the fear that used to govern the lives of the Muslims in this blessed state, so much so that they didn’t feel safe from the kuffar outside the state invading them, nor from the munafiqin inside the state betraying them, and much more aside from that from among the signs of weakness which nevertheless did not detract a single bit from the value of the state of the Prophet g, nor from the obligation on the Muslims to always endeavor to make it their goal to establish a state in the same mold and to tread upon its methodology. For this reason, when the Islamic State of Iraq was established, the followers of the deviant groups and the parties of fitnah were among the first to defame it, and what they used to criticize about it most was the poverty it contained and the mushrikin’s ability to kill and imprison its soldiers, turning a blind eye to the condition which the state of the Prophet gwas in, and ignoring the fact that a state only becomes an Islamic state due to the rulings of the Shari’ah being superior therein, and not due to the number of gold bars or piles of dollar bills in the coffers of its central bank, nor due to the size of its army or the number of planes flying in its skies. The Sahabah’s Society…The Best Ummah Brought Forth for Mankind Likewise, the deviants who associate themselves with Islam persisted in their lies and in distorting the reality of an Islamic state, altering the characteristics of its people by depicting them as being angels who neither sin nor make mistakes, and who never transgress against one another, and who have no dunya-related concerns, and who are simply busy with worship, dhikr, praying, and fasting. So they painted this fanciful image of the Muslim society, and in reality, this society which they painted in the minds of their followers had never existed before on the earth for a single day, nor will it ever exist until Allah inherits the earth and those upon it. And it is not required that a society fulfill those fanciful conditions in order to merit the description of being Islamic. Rather, it is sufficient for a society that Islam is what is manifested by the majority of its people and that they are ruled by the shari’ah of Islam. Indeed, the society of the companions of Allah’s Messenger gis the best society to have ever existed on the earth, and those who lived in this society were among the best of the creation of Allah c. Allah c said, “You are the best nation brought forth for mankind. You enjoin what is right and forbid what is wrong and believe in Allah. If only the People of the Scripture had believed, it would have been better for them. Among them are believers, but most of them are defiantly disobedient” (Al ‘Imran 110). And the companions of the Prophet Muhammad g are better than the companions and disciples of the previous prophets, and there has never been in any society in terms of submitting to the rule of Allah the likes of that which was found in the society of the Sahabah. And without any doubt, it is a shar’i obligation for any society of Muslims to endeavor to become like the society of the companions of Allah’s Messenger g in terms of their iman, their worship, their justice, their concern in practicing the Sunnah, and their jihad. But if in the society of Muslims there exist people who make mistakes, or people who disobey Allah c or who fall into committing oppression, or there occurs something of dispute over some aspect of this base dunya, or the Muslims are infiltrated by munafiqin – whether they are few or many in number – this does not negate the goodness of that society, nor do these issues detract from that society’s Islamic nature as long as the good that is found within it is prevalent and the evil that it contains is fought, and as long as the justice that is found within it is prevalent and the injustice it contains is fought. And we can go back to the ideal society – the society of the Sahabah  – in order to see an example of this society’s human nature, for among the Sahabah were people who made mistakes and sought forgiveness, and disobeyed Allah and repented. And among them were people who associated themselves with them but in reality were not from among them. On the surface, they were Muslims, but on the inside, they were disbelievers. Among them were many who died upon nifaq, and being members of this righteous society did not benefit them in any way, nor did their companionship of the leader of mankind g benefit them. A Society of Men…Not an Assembly of Angels So this society, whose members were characterized by their iman, was infiltrated by many munafiqin, those who concealed within themselves kufr, plotted against Islam and the Muslims – with some of them even plotting to kill Allah’s Messenger g – incited the kuffar against the people of tawhid, and allied with the Jews and associated with them, despite manifesting Islam, attending the Jumu’ah and daily prayers with the Muslims, and partaking with the Muslims in battles and raids. And yet no one defamed the society of the Sahabah on the basis that it contained many munafiqin, nor did anyone defame the army of Allah’s Messenger g on account that one-third of the army during one of the battles was comprised of munafiqin who withdrew from the battle before it had even begun. And from this society there emerged individuals who apostatized from the religion of Allah c, returned to their shirk, and rejoined the mushrikin despite what they had known of guidance and what they had witnessed of the truth, and yet no one defamed the religion of Allah’s Messenger g on the basis that some of those who ascribed themselves to it apostatized from it and chose shirk over it. And despite the fact that the society of the Sahabah was the purest of societies and the furthest of them from immorality, there were those in the society who committed zina and then came and confessed due to the pureness of their hearts and their fear of Allah’s punishment in the Hereafter. Their human nature had led them to fall into a forbidden matter, but they knew that they would be punished in the Hereafter if they did not cleanse themselves of their sin, so their brothers carried out the hadd on them, stoning them until they died having repented to Allah from their mistake. So neither did they leave the fold of Islam on account of that, nor did their deed defame the society of the Sahabah or nullify its mark of chastity and its characteristic of virtue. And also among the best of this virtuous society was him who drank alcohol and was then beaten with shoes as a result, despite the Messenger g having attested to his goodness. And there was him who took part in the slander against Ummul-Muminin ‘Aishah, the wife of the Prophet g, and the hadd for slandering chaste women was carried out on him, despite him being from among the participants in the Battle of Badr, those who’d had their past and future sins forgiven by Allah and yet despite that would show great concern for repenting, purifying themselves, and offering themselves in service to Allah, the Lord of the creation. And from among the members of this society whom the Prophet g himself appointed to govern the affairs of the Muslims and oversee their interests was him who ordered the people to disobey Allah c and sought of them that they cast themselves into Hellfire, but the Prophet g forbade them from obedience in regards to forbidden matters. And among them was him who did something out of a mistake in judgment, and the Prophet g disassociated himself from his deed. And even though these examples are few in number and occurred on a rare basis, the point is that they did occur in the society of the Sahabah , which emphasizes the human aspect of this society – a human aspect that cannot be devoid of disobedience and sin, lusts and misconceptions, and love for the dunya and disputing over it, but which nonetheless never stripped the Sahabah’s society of the characteristics of virtue and iman, and its worthiness of being emulated throughout the ages. Being on Guard against the Prevalence of Wickedness A society that lives in the shade of the Islamic State today will never be more virtuous than the society of the Sahabah , and it is not possible for us to stipulate such a condition on it, nor is it possible for us to falsely claim that it is free of sinners or free of those who commit oppression either against themselves or against others, and in this regard, both the mujahidin and the sinful who remain behind from jihad are equal. However, it is obligatory to completely be on guard against negligence with respect to commanding the good and forbidding the evil, beginning with forbidding the greatest of oppression – the act of committing shirk with Allah, the Almighty, which Allah will never forgive – and continuing on to forbidding the people from oppressing one another – and this is the type of oppression whereby the sin is not removed except by returning one’s rights to him or by the oppressed individual pardoning the wrongdoer with regards to his right. And we must be completely on guard against wickedness becoming prevalent among us, with no one among us denouncing it, such that Allah c destroys us in confirmation of what was narrated from the Prophet g in the hadith of Zaynab Bint Jahsh , who said, “So I said, ‘O Messenger of Allah, would we be destroyed while there are righteous people among us?’ He said, ‘Yes, if wickedness becomes prevalent’” (Reported by al-Bukhari and Muslim).