Some meters away from our ribat line, nothing separated us from the enemy except a street on which American B52 warplanes – which were taking off from airbases in the Arabian Peninsula – had blown a huge crater. It was a crater much like the ones that had become widespread in the various neighborhoods in Old Mosul, due to the Crusaders and their agents implementing a naive strategy in order to prevent the istishhadiyyin from reaching the murtaddin’s gatherings and bases. And so their plotting became their destruction, for these craters rendered their vehicles out of service – preventing them from moving – and therefore, nothing remained for them except for the warplanes to take the place of their vehicles, providing cover fire for their soldiers, and opening the path in front of them. They would burn everything in sight and turn vast areas into wastelands just so that a group overburdened with injuries could advance a few meters. On the frontline, meanwhile, the mujahidin were spread out into units and ambushing teams along its stretch between the rubble of the destroyed buildings and the trenches, with every unit containing skilled snipers, who would lie in wait for the impure Rafidah, alternating their sniping missions between day and night. It is a difficult task that is surrounded by dangers, and one that requires constant awareness, a wakeful eye, and physical strength. I approached one of them, being drawn towards him by his radiant face and the splint on his broken hand. I tried to start a conversation with him, but feared that he might miss an opportunity due to me speaking, so I sat next to him, monitoring the movements of the enemy. A quiet moment was interrupted as the wall shook at the sound of multiple explosions – one of which was the result of a white phosphorus round that had exploded close to us, emitting a repulsive smelling smoke. I rushed to pull out a piece of cloth I had prepared for moments like these in order to breathe through it. But Allah c distanced the smoke from us, towards the direction of the murtaddin – praise be to Him – except that the dust of the destroyed building nearby completely obscured our vision. When the dust had cleared, that same sniper came to me with a smile on his face as he was intending to relocate to another position, saying, “With Allah’s permission, that dust will not be joined in my nose or yours, or in the noses of any of the mujahidin who breathed it in, together with the smoke of the fire of Jahannam, as the Prophet g said, ‘The dust in the path of Allah and the smoke of Jahannam do not ever combine in the body of a slave’” (Reported by Imam al-Bukhari in al-Adab al- Mufrad, and elsewhere). Then he followed that by saying, “Do you know that this smoke was the most hateful smell in my life? But now I find it pleasant!” He reminded me of the statement of Bilal  when he was asked, “How did you endure, O Bilal?” (referring to the torture of the mushrikin inflicted on him in the scorching heat of Makkah). He said, “I combined the sweetness of iman with the bitterness of the torment, and the sweetness of iman prevailed over the bitterness of the torment, and thus I endured!” This incident reminded me of another story of the effects of the sweetness of iman on the believer, which leads the believer to find hardship he endures for the sake of his religion to be something pleasant. A young man descended from one of the villages of Mosul, fatigued by a disability, the cause of which was a nerve injury in his leg which he sustained in battle. Academically he had reached the 5th grade and was from among those distinguished in his studies. His father  used to dream that his son would one day become a doctor. When Mosul was liberated, his father joined the ranks of the mujahidin, and he and his uncles then followed, until all his grandfather’s sons had likewise joined, all of whom were killed in the path of Allah – we consider them so and Allah is their judge – the last of them being his father and uncle, who were killed on the same day in Zanjili. I asked him, “Does your injury pain you?” He replied, “When I press down on the protrusion I feel pain.” I used to feel pity for him due to his circumstances, but when the battle intensified you would find him among the first of those advancing, jogging as if he were in good health. Mashaallah…He would not remain inactive, and he would monitor the movements of the enemy and search for ideal positions from which to shoot his prey. And so, in the shade of this ruthless battle, finding a suitable position became a difficult goal for the mujahid, for it had become normal for any place from which the enemy was being shot at with bullets to be attacked with aircraft missiles – a fruitful exhaustion of the military arsenal of the Crusaders and Rafidah. And so the areas of ribat on the frontlines became heaps of rocks, which the mujahidin transformed – through their steadfastness and their rigid defense – into well-fortified fortresses, by the grace of Allah c. Our brother returned from his mission searching for a sniper nest for himself, and said, “During my reconnaissance I came across a sweet and some glass bottles of mineral water.” So I informed him that its expiry date had ended some years ago, as the place had been abandoned. He said, “Anyway, I ate the bit of sweet, and if I find another one I shall eat it as well, inshaallah”, and he left me, smiling as if he had obtained bird’s meat, not a bit of sweet whose expiry date had ended.Indeed, that is the sweetness of faith that Abu Sufyan  mentioned on the tongue of Heraclius when he was asked about the situation of the followers of Muhammad g. Heraclius said to him, “And I asked you if anyone of them renounces his religion due to disliking it after having embraced it, to which you replied, ‘No,’ and such is iman when its delight enters the heart and mixes with it.’”The Best of the Two Good Outcomes In the same area I met up with a brother who was a sniper from the Caribbean. He overheard me communicating in English with one of the non-Arab brothers, and so he approached me, attempting to recognize the voice, and when we spoke he said, “Do you need a skilled sniper in that place?” I said to him, “Send him!” And so he sent me his brother and the stepson of his brother, Abu Dharr al-Bosni, who is a mujahid in his prime years of age – 15 years old – from Bosnia Herzegovina. We engaged in conversation with his brother, and I asked him about his path to guidance and how he arrived to the Islamic State. He replied, “I read about jihad in the Quran and contemplated its verses, such as the statement of Allah c, ‘Go forth, whether light or heavy’ (At-Tawbah 41), at which point I began to search for the path to jihad. When the Islamic State was announced, my brother and I raced towards it, and Allah facilitated for us the path to reach it, and to Him belong all praise and grace.” So I said to him jokingly, “We will return to the Caribbean as conquerors – with Allah’s permission – and eat from your fish, and from its coconuts and bananas.” At which he replied, “Never. I don’t want anything except Jannah.” So I smiled at him, for his words reminded me of the two good outcomes as I was thinking of the second of the two – victory. The Lions of the Dawawin in the Arenas of Battle On the walkie-talkies a warner alerted that the Rapid Response militia had snuck into a building that had been subjected to severe bombing. A brother who went by the name Abu Mus’ab Dhat as-Sawari, whose job was to transport supplies to the frontlines, responded immediately, saying, “Prepare for me four brothers and we will attack with them – with Allah’s permission – and step on the necks of the murtaddin, for those Rafidah are women. They are not from the people of conflict and battle.” I was amazed at the enthusiasm and bravery of this transporter. Thereafter, another knight named Abu Ya’qub responded to him saying, “Patience, my brother. Wait until the brothers reach me and I will come to you with them.” Abu Mus’ab sensed from Abu Ya’qub some reluctance, so he rebuked him, wherein Abu Ya’qub responded to him on the walkie-talkie, saying, “O my brother, by Allah I shall be ahead of them, and I shall attack with them, but I am waiting for their arrival near the target.” It was only a matter of minutes before the knights gathered and set out towards their enemies while making takbir, saying, “Proceed, O my brothers. Verily, it is one of two good outcomes!” And so the knights proceeded to sweep the building, which had an Abrams tank and a Humvee nearby, after it took the enemy several days of battles to attempt to open the road towards the building with their bulldozers due to them having destroyed the roads. Abu Mus’ab returned with minor bruises due to the airstrikes, and the other brothers likewise returned with him after having accomplished their mission, except for that gallant one known as Abu Ya’qub, as we had heard his companion giving the glad tidings on the walkie-talkie that Abu Ya’qub has rested. Yes indeed! By Allah, verily he has rested from the fatigue of the dunya and its distress, and now we consider him to be in the body of a bird flying in Jannah wherever it wishes! It is not strange that these people go forward, racing each other to death for the cause of Allah and in order to embitter the lives of the disbelievers, given that their leaders are in front of them in the battle lines. Anytime their leader, with his grey hair, would hear a scream he would fly towards it, pursuing death in the places where it is likeliest to be found. He would insist on carrying out an istishhadi operation, but his leaders would continuously prevent him from doing so. You would find him patrolling the fronts in district in which he worked, monitoring the enemy and carrying out reconnaissance, arranging the units of mujahidin in various positions, and even joining in the attack himself. So what then of a soldier who sees his leader with such motivation and sacrifice? No doubt he would think less of himself and compel himself to follow his example and emulate his deeds. Ibn al-Mubarak would say, “Whenever I would look at the face of al-Fudayl Ibn ‘Iyad I would think less myself.” You might ask me, who are these people, and to what army do they belong? And how were they trained? I would respond to you quite simply that they are the lions of the Diwan of Health who have demolished the ABCs of military knowledge. They are unique men who did not spare any effort when it came to treating the wounds of the mujahidin as well as those of the subjects of Amirul-Muminin. But when the enemy invaded their land, this became just one aspect of their deeds, and I would not have given them their full due even if I were to write an entire volume about their deeds. You would find one of them getting wounded several times consecutively, and he would ignore his wounds and return to defend his post and to treat the wounded there, such as the likes of Dr. ‘Umar Kassar. He came to Mosul – before the calamity – for treatment after being injured with a broken shin bone in the region of Jazirat ar-Ramadi, and underwent a number of surgeries which did not lead to his recovery. So the brothers advised him to leave the city before it became besieged. However, he and his wife – who is a doctor herself and is the sister of Shaykh Hudhayfah al-Battawi – a insisted on staying, and refused to leave until they attained one of the two good outcomes. They showed great courage in treating the wounded, and when the enemy reached the vicinity of the Medical Complex and battles were taking place at its threshold, they refused to leave, as did the rest of the medical personnel, until they attained shahadah – we consider them so and Allah is their judge – as a result of severe bombardment, which turned the Medical Complex into dust. They were an honorable, heroic people, who pursued shahadah in the cause of Allah’s, not degrees and plaques. The Inghimasi Doctor…Amir of the Diwan of Health It was a quiet day in our district, for the murtaddin were still terror-stricken after a blessed raid by the brothers in another region. So we completed fasting what was left of the day and sat down for the iftar dinner, which consisted of some dates and a little bit of lentils. Our guest today was the amir of the Diwan of Health known as Dr. ‘Abdullah. The shaykh reclined on his back after iftar in order to get some rest, which is something that wouldn’t come to him easily, as he would spend his day visiting and inspecting all of the units. He would occasionally be accompanied by Yahya, a young man in his 20s who had not completed his studies at the medical college. Yahya would always serve the brothers. If you were to ever enter upon him you would find him serving them food or tending to their needs, always standing, and not lying down until he saw that everyone in the room was asleep. He was a very bashful person. I would look at him and say to myself, “I consider this man to be from the people of Jannah, so why is it that he is still among us?” Shaykh ‘Abdullah called him, saying, “See to my shin for the pain has increased.” He then gave a long sigh and said, “The Prophet g was sent with his message when he was 40 years of age, and he carried the hardships and agonies of da’wah. Then he spent 23 years in da’wah and jihad, and here I am having just exceeded 40 years of age and I am not able to hang on for one day, so have mercy on us on account of our weakness, my Lord.” His face showed paleness and fatigue, which concealed the splendor of his old age. Yahya pressed on the shaykh’s shin and he felt a slight pain, so I jokingly mentioned to him a well-known saying: “Old age isn’t a flaw,” at which he laughed and said, “You’re right, it isn’t a flaw.” He was a down-to-earth man. He mumbled some words that I couldn’t hear due to the sound of bombings close by that drowned out his voice. After the bombing stopped, the Shaykh said, “This America, in truth, is the Fir’awn of this age. Imagine, they bomb the second operation room in the Medical Complex, which has four floors, and turn it into a pile of rubble, and everyone knows that our doctors inside operate on the victims of the airstrikes of the Americans and their proxies, for they were not content with killing women, children, and the elderly, and dismembering their limbs. Rather, they pursued them to the operation room in order to finish them off, along with the medical specialists inside, out of clear animosity towards tawhid and out of a strong enthusiasm to spill the blood of the Muslims. “In contrast, our soldiers from among the doctors, nurses, and medics represent the pinnacle of bravery and chivalry. When the operations room was targeted in the first strike, those who survived returned to search under the rubble for those still alive, knowing full well that the planes would return to bomb them again and kill them. And this is what occurred in three consecutive airstrikes. So they were truly a source of pride for us.” My conversation with him ended, and I was heartbroken and devastated after suddenly learning that my friend, Dr. Abul-Yaman al-Baghdadi – with his cheerful face and a gap in his smile – was among the victims in that barbaric airstrike. After some days, I heard the news that the amir of the Diwan of Health, Dr. ‘Abdullah, was killed after he charged towards the enemies of Allah alone in the neighborhood of Shifa. So may Allah accept him and unite him with his wife, who was killed as a result of mortar strikes on the Old City on the same day that her husband was killed – and we consider that Allah responded to the du’a of our shaykh, who would supplicate to Allah that He take both him and his wife as shuhada together. So how great are you, O knight of the Diwan of Health, and congratulations to Amirul-Muminin for having the likes of these leaders. The leaders of the Diwan of Health were killed within the course of two days. The first of them was the deputy amir of the Diwan, Dr. Khalid Qardash – who was killed as a result of an injury he sustained on the frontlines of the battle at the Medical Complex – followed by the wise and heroic Dr. Qutaybah, and ending with the lion, ‘Abdullah. Not Turning Away Their Faces Until They Are Killed The morning was accompanied by the voice of a warner declaring that there was movement within the vicinity, and as we prepared to head out, there came Abu ‘Ubaydah – a bright-faced mujahid and technician who would laugh when the breeze played with his face. He had just returned from a one day leave to visit his family, so his clothes were clean and his hair was fashioned in a way that differed from the hair of the murabitin, as the absence of water and one’s being busy with ribat and fighting would leave his hair looking unkempt and dusty. I said to him, “Did you bid farewell to your family?” He replied, “Yes, I said to them, ‘This will be my last time meeting you.’” Before he had left to see his family I had advised him to bid them farewell and to say to them, “I may not return”, which he agreed to do as he laughed cheerfully. The warner called out, declaring, “A bulldozer has appeared clearly in front of you, so deal with it.” Abu ‘Ubaydah called out to me saying, “I want a bazooka so that I can deal with it.” So I gave it to him and he fired it, and they turned back, fleeing. Only a few minutes had passed when he called out to me saying, “The murtaddin have brought forth their idol, the Abrams tank. Bring me another bazooka so that I can strike it – with Allah’s permission.” I gave him permission and passed him the bazooka after advising him to take certain safety measures, due to the fact that they did not bring forth the tank except to strike the position from which the first rocket was launched. I repositioned myself while he waited for an opportunity to destroy that idol. I called out to him jokingly with a nickname which he had been given at home when he was young. “O so-and-so, with hand grenades my brother…with hand grenades,” I said, referring to an expression between us that meant that in our fight against the enemy it was essential that we be in a position close enough that our hand grenades can reach, and where there is no return. So he laughed and said, “With bazookas, by Allah’s permission.” Just a few moments later, the place filled with dust, smoke, explosions, and firing, and so we raced to the location of our brother only to find him breathing his last breath amidst the rubble and fire. His face was covered in soil and one of his legs had been severed, while the other was broken. We evacuated him so that perhaps we could save him, but death was closer to him. We didn’t grieve over him due to the fact that he hadn’t turned back in retreat. Rather, he had faced the enemy’s tank with bravery – we consider him so and Allah is his judge. We do not care that we did not wipe the soil from his face, for there was someone else who would wipe away the soil – with Allah’s permission – for it was reported in the Musannaf of ‘Abdur-Razzak from ‘Abdullah Ibn ‘Ubayd Ibn ‘Umayr al-Laythi, who said, “When the two armies meet, Allah causes the Hur al-’Ayn to descend to the lowest heaven. If they see a man whose efforts to advance forward they are pleased with, they say, ‘O Allah make him steadfast’, and if he withdraws, they turn away from him, and if he is killed they descend upon him and wipe away the soil from his face, saying, ‘O Allah cover with soil the one who covered him with soil, and dirty the one who dirtied him.’” During the first few days we were unable to bury him due to the intensity of the battles and airstrikes. The courageous knight, Abu ‘Ubaydah, the smiling, crippled, ambitious, zealous man had dismounted. Whatever Misses You Would Not Have Befallen You My shift in ribat had come to an end, and the brother who was going to replace me and take my position arrived. I carried my belongings and when I was about to leave, I remembered that the neighborhood of Shifa and the Medical Complex had their features changed due to the intense daily strikes from warplanes, artillery cannons, and mortars. You could barely find a building untouched by the bombardment, so I feared that I might stray and lose my way, and thus the drones – which do not leave the sky for even a minute – might spot me. I inquired with those brothers who had recently returned to our post, and they guided me to a route which I then took. A major portion of this route required that you travel across a vast open space, with nothing to shelter or to shade you and no walls to protect you, for the area was destroyed. However, Allah’s protection preserved the mujahidin and His watchful Eye guarded them, and so He blinded the Crusaders and their dogs, turning their sights away from the mujahidin. I passed the ruins of the hospital’s emergency room where there lay the decomposed bodies of those whom the medics had only managed to reach after they had departed from this world…The dark blood that stains a stretcher carrying a body whose nature was unknown, clearly portrays the criminality and haughtiness of the Crusaders and murtaddin waging war on the lands of the Muslims…The doctor’s gown hanging by the exit door was covered with the blood of his wounded patients, and then with his own… I quickly rushed outside, supplicating to Allah that He accept the shuhada. I arrived at a place that was akin to the first transit stop on the way to my next point and found some remnants of water. I bathed with it and changed my clothing, whose color had changed. My own color had likewise changed, and the most accurate description for it was the description that the shaykh – Dr. ‘Abdullah – gave my appearance when he said to his aide Yahya , “Abu so-and-so…from the dirt it appears to the onlooker as if he is a piece of concrete.” I decided to sleep in order to rest my exhausted body before continuing my journey towards my next stop. The location was considered somewhat dangerous due to its close proximity to the enemy’s positions and lines of fire, so I placed my trust in Allah, wrapped myself with my explosive belt, and drew my weapon close to me. I slept a few short hours, which were interrupted by the sounds of clashes and explosions, and fearing that I may have been surrounded I quickly exited to another location, hoping to get a little rest. I returned to sleep, and only a short amount of time passed before the sound of five consecutive rockets echoed, pounding the location and demolishing its pillars and everything around it, but I and some brothers survived. So praise be to Allah for His protection, for this lesson entrenched within me the reality that whatever misses you would not have befallen you. I sat and waited for a guide to come from the direction of my next stop, and suddenly a brother entered saying, “The guide took a number of brothers before you, but when he returned to collect the second group he got bombed .” I asked him about the details, and he replied, “On his way back, a drone targeted him, at which point he began to lose a lot of blood, and we were unsuccessful in rescuing him. The last thing he kept saying was, ‘O Allah, Jannah…O Allah, accept me among the shuhada.’” Therefore, whatever befalls you would not have missed you. What a blessing it is for one to be injured in the cause of Allah, and to win His pleasure and His Jannah.