O mujahidin! I do not find anything better than that which was written by Shaykhul-Islam Ibn Taymiyyah, while commenting on the mobilization of the Ahzab in the Battle of the Trench. He r said, “And the summary of the story – i.e. the Battle of the Trench – is that the Muslims [faced] the collectivity of the mushrikin mobilizing against them from around them and they came with their armies to Madinah in order to eradicate the believers. So Quraysh and their allies from Bani Asad, Ashja’, Fazazah and others from the tribes of Najd gathered, and likewise did the Jews of Quraydah and an-Nadhir gather. Thus did these Ahzab gather and they outnumbered the Muslims many times. So the Prophet g raised the women and children to the elevated parts of Madinah. “And in this occurrence – i.e. the one in the time of Shaykhul-Islam – the enemy, Mongols and other Turks, Persians, Arabized Arabs, and their likes from among the apostates, including the Armenian Christians and others have mobilized. And this enemy came down next to the lands of the Muslims while they are between bravery and reluctance to fight, with the Muslims opposing them being few in number, and the Mongols’ aim being to seize the land to exterminate its people, just as those ones previously came down in the surroundings of Madinah against the Muslims. And during the year of the Trench there was a strong coldness and a harsh wind, by which Allah turned the Ahzab away from Madinah, as He c said, ‘And We sent upon them a wind and armies [of angels] you did not see’ (Al-Ahzab 9). “And likewise, this year, Allah multiplied in it the snow, rain, and cold, in contradiction to what is common, until most people disliked that and we used to tell them, ‘Do not dislike that, for indeed in this lies a wisdom and mercy from Allah.’ And this was from the greatest means by which Allah turned away the enemy. “And Allah said about the matter of the Ahzab, ‘[Remember] when they came at you from above you and from below you, and when eyes shifted [in fear], and hearts reached the throats and you assumed about Allah [various] assumptions. There the believers were tested and shaken with a severe shaking’ (Al-Ahzab 10-11). “And likewise this year, the enemy came from the upper part of Sham...which is north of the Euphrates…” He then continues until he says, “And the people assumed about Allah various assumptions. This one thought that no one from the army of Sham would stand and face them and they would eradicate the people of Sham, and this one thought that if they confronted them, [the Mongols] would annihilate them and surround them just like the moon is surrounded by a glow, and this one thought that they could no longer reside in the land of Sham and that it would no longer be a land of Islam, and this one thought that they would take it (i.e. Sham) and then proceed to Misr (Egypt) and then conquer it and no one would stand in their way, so he contemplated fleeing to Yemen and other such places, and this one – thinking somewhat positively – said, ‘They will rule [Sham] this year as they ruled it in the year of Hulagu in 657 AH. Then the army may come out from Misr and rescue it from them just as it came out that year.’ And this is the assumption of the best among them. And this one that what the scholars of the prophet narrations informed him of, along with the glad tidings, were merely false hopes and absurd superstitions, and this one was overcome by fear and panic, to the extent that thoughts would enter his heart, coming and going as quickly as the passing of the clouds, as he had no mind with which to comprehend and no tongue with which to speak. And for this one, the signs contradicted themselves and his desires conflicted with one another, especially because he could not distinguish with regards to the glad tidings between those which are true and those which are false, nor could he distinguish with regards to the scholars of narrations between those who were mistaken and those who were correct, nor does he know the texts of the narrations as the scholars do. Rather, he is either ignorant of them and has only heard them as parables, following which he could not discern the subtle clues they contain, or even lead himself to refute what he thought contradicted them upon his initial glance. For this reason, confusion took hold of him who was characterized as being guided, and the various opinions would pelt one another with him just as children pelt one another with stones. ‘There the believers were tested and shaken with a severe shaking’ (Al-Ahzab 111). Allah tested them with this trial, through which He atones their mistakes and raises their ranks, and then He c said, ‘And when a faction of them said, ‘O people of Yathrib, there is no place for you [here], so return [home]’’ (Al-Ahzab 13). “So a faction of them said, ‘There is no place for you to take up position here due to the large numbers of the enemy, so return to Madinah.’ And it was said [that the meaning is], ‘There is no place for you to fight, so consider being protected under their authority.’ “…So when the enemy Tatars came, there were munafiqin who said, ‘The Islamic state is no longer standing, so we have to enter into the state of the Tatars.’ And some of them said, ‘It cannot be inhabited anymore.’ And some of them said, ‘The interest (maslahah) dictates that we surrender to them and place ourselves under their authority, just like the people of Iraq surrendered to them... ” Shaykhul-Islam then continues until he says, “And in this event there were indeed great matters which occurred and which surpassed the limit of analogy and exceeded the norms, and in it Allah’s support for His religion became apparent to every intelligent person, as well as His care for this ummah after Islam almost buckled. “And the apparent means were cut off, the powerful Ahzab were humbled, the differing hearts abandoned one another, and the victorious sect remained steadfast, so Allah opened the gates of His heavens for His powerful soldiers, and He struck down the paths of the people of disbelief and hypocrisy and made this a sign for the believers until the Day of Judgment…” This ends his r words. And when the news reached that the Tatars were preparing for the invasion of Sham, the people became scared and the transports became expensive, so the fee for a horse from Hamasah to Dimashq became 200 dirhams in the year 699 AH. And some leaders considered surrendering the castle to the Tatars to protect the inhabitants. So Ibn Taymiyyah stood in front of them and requested from the commander of the castle not to surrender it, even if only one stone remained in it. Thus, the commander of the castle accepted the view of Ibn Taymiyyah and this was for the benefit of the Muslims. And there came the news of the approach of the Misri armies towards Sham, so Hulay and those with him of the Tatars went to Dimashq, and Dimashq remained without an army and without guards, so its inhabitants were called to come out with their weapons to sleep on the walls and gates of the city in order to protect the land, so they went out on the city walls… And Ibn Taymiyyah would walk on the city walls every night to incite the people to be patient and to fight, while reciting to them the verses of jihad and ribat. When life returned to Dimashq, Ibn Taymiyyah and his companions went around to the bars and destroyed the alcohol containers. Then, Ibn Taymiyyah left with al Athram – the vice-ruler of Dimashq – to the lands of Jubaylah and Kasrawan to teach the Rafidah and Batiniyyah a lesson for having helped the Tatars and for having fought against the Muslims, so their leaders came to Ibn Taymiyyah showing obedience and regret, and they returned all they had taken. Then al-Athram returned to Dimashq, where orders were given that people shall attach their weapons to the shops, and that they should learn shooting. Thus, the Imajat (the training camps in Dimashq) were built and the scholars were ordered to learn shooting in preparation for any emergency situation. Likewise, it is incumbent on the Ummah to prepare in times of ease so that when the hardships descend the sons of the Ummah are able to stand up to defend it and to repel the schemes of the enemies. And in the year 702 AH the Tatars entered the lands of Sham. So the people became confused, and performed qunut in prayer, and then the first battles took place. Then the army of the Tatars came with 7000 fighters, but a group from the heroes of Sham repelled them, and their number was 1500, so Allah supported His soldiers. And with the approach of the Tatar army, the two armies from Hamah and Halab retreated to Hims, and then they feared that the Tatars might surprise them, so they descended to the pastureland of as- Suffar, and the Tatars reached Hims, then they went to Ba’labak, whereupon the fear of the people became intense, and the rumors and demoralizing talk spread. Ibn Taymiyyah played a major role in calming down the people and in the preservation of the internal stability. Then some people started to doubt the validity of the fight against the Tatars, because they displayed Islam completely, like some of the defeatists do now concerning the fight against the army of the tawaghit. Ibn Hazm r said in al-Muhalla that there is no greater crime after disbelief than forbidding jihad for the sake of Allah and ordering to surrender the womenfolk to the enemies of Allah. So Ibn Taymiyyah opposed them and issued his famous fatwas on the obligation of fighting the Tatars and refuted all doubts that emerged concerning this issue. And he would say to the people, “If you would see me on that side (i.e. the side of the Tatars) with a copy of the Quran on my head, kill me!” So the people became brave for the fight and their hearts became strong. When the Tatars approached, Ibn Taymiyyah said to one of the commanders of Sham, “O so-and-so, put me at the position of death.” The commander said, “So I positioned him in front of the enemy while they were descending like a torrent, their weapons looming under the dust.” Then I said, “Sir, this is the position of death and this is the enemy and he has approached under the dust.” So the shaykh glanced at the sky, then he returned his glance and moved his lips for a long time – calling his Lord – then he clashed with the Tatars. The fighting became intense, the encounter flared up, and the heroes showed extreme courage, so the Tatars fled to the mountains. Then, night came and the Muslims besieged the mountains, while the hearts of the Tatars filled with terror. O mujahidin! Indeed, the religion does not become established except at the hands of men of determination, and it is never established on the shoulders of those who seek easy solutions and those who are spoiled, and how far it is that it may be established on their shoulders. For the great religion is not established except upon the shoulders of great men and the massive responsibility which the skies and the earth were overburdened with. It is not possible to establish it except by its people and men. If you wish to wail, O doves of the ben oil trees, over your separation Then where can someone be found to witness the sorrows Is it your eyelids that will fill with tears or mine? [The claim of] a claimant is not accepted without evidence How is Islam established and how does it return to its past glory and might without determination like the determination of Abu Bakr as-Siddiq on the day of apostasy, the day on which that great, tender, weeping shaykh made an oath, saying, “By Allah, I will surely fight whoever distinguishes between prayer and zakah, for zakah is what is due on wealth. By Allah, even if they would prevent me from a rope which they used to pay to the Messenger of Allah g, I would fight them for withholding it.” How is Islam established without determination like the determination of Anas Ibn an-Nadar, who said, “If Allah makes me witness the fight of the mushrikin then I will surely show Allah what I will do.” So he witnessed Uhud and fought until he was killed and more than 80 stab and strike wounds were found on his body. And the Prophet g used to call upon his Lord, saying, “O Allah, indeed I ask You for steadfastness upon the affair and the resolve for guidance.” Indeed, firm resolve boils in the heart like the boiling of water in a pot, and it truly encourages one to embark upon great matters, morning and evening, until it becomes like ash-Shafi’i r said, “Relaxation for men is heedlessness.” And the Sahabi, ‘Abdullah Ibn Jahsh, leaned towards Sa’d Ibn Abi Waqqas before the Battle of Uhud, and they agreed that each of them would make a du’a and the other would say ‘amin.’ The du’a of ‘Abdullah Ibn Jahsh was, “O Allah, provide me with an extremely determined man so that I may fight him for You and he may fight me, and he cuts my nose and my ear. Then, when I meet You tomorrow, You say, ‘O ‘Abdullah, for what reason was your nose and ear cut?’ Then I reply, ‘For following You and Your Messenger.’ Then You say, ‘You spoke the truth.’” How great this du’a is and how excellent! They are indeed souls that have sold everything for their Lord, and that which was bitter became sweet for them…This does not come except from a man who found the way to be sweet and tasted its sweetness, so he doesn’t care for anything except for the achieving of his Lord’s pleasure. And nothing is of importance to him except meeting Allah while he is obedient to Him and as a shahid for His cause. Who do we have of these likes? Who do we have who are the likes of Ahmad Ibn Hanbal, Ibn Taymiyyah, and al-‘Izz Ibn ‘Abdis-Salam, who carried the banner of jihad and fighting the enemies of Allah for the cause of Allah, while the scholars had abandoned the field and withdrew from the leadership of the caravan, and it was hard for them to sacrifice their souls for Allah. And they did not stop there. Rather, they called out to the mujahidin, accusing them of every defect, so their voice was not heard except that it was filled with hostility against the mujahidin…all of this under the excuse of politics and cleverness. And I don’t know when those ones will abandon the “fiqh of defeatism and the understandings of weakness and cowardice.” Did you not hear how they denounced the slaughtering of the American, Berg. They made this denunciation because they had refrained from fighting the kuffar before, and because they had never breathed the winds of glory and never raised a head with the meaning of iman by which the believer rises over Jahiliyyah and its people: “And to Allah belongs [all] honor, and to His Messenger, and to the believers, but the hypocrites do not know” (Al Munafiqun 8). It is difficult for these types of people to imagine themselves – the servile slaves – slaughtering the American master. Yes, for they have suckled the milk of disgrace from the breasts of their mothers, and it coursed through their depths, so how can they change or alter. They did not manifest this bitter truth openly. Instead, they dressed it up in the garment of fiqh, and presented it adorned with the dress of wisdom. Thus, they falsely claimed that this matter had tarnished the image of Islam in the eyes of the Westerners, who have fragile sensitivities, and that the world had been reacting to the crimes of Abu Ghurayb and Guantanamo, but then this operation came and had a negative impact on the reaction and reply of the peoples of the world. In fact, the popularity of the dog of the Romans, Bush was at its lowest levels. Then, this operation occurred and increased his popularity, and it was as if the so-called free people of the world had sharpened their swords, mobilized their regiments, and stretched out their necks to liberate Iraq and to save the women and the bereaved from the prisons of subjugation and oppression. And what is truly sad and horrible, is that the disbelieving Crusader media was able to – and with secret agreement with our own fellow Arabs – to have an impact on the determining of the Muslim personality. By way of the global Arab channels and their forceful dissemination, they were able to brainwash the Muslims, alter they thinking, degenerate their fitrah, and feminize their resolve. Subhanallah! It is a spiteful Crusader enemy that has come with an awful plan to conquer the Ummah and empower the Jews. They fought against the Shari’ah, transgressed against our sanctities, overstepped the boundaries, and poisoned the people with baseness and disgrace, and all the while my ummah observes from afar and is unable to do anything other than to slap themselves and wail in grief, unable to break the chains of subservience in which they have remained for so long. Generations were raised, that were sucked with the milk of subservience and were humiliated with the dress of shame, so their scales tipped and changed extensively. Thus, the weights of the mind and heavenly guidance were lost, as the Messenger of Allah g informed us, saying, “Tribulations will afflict the hearts just as a mat is woven one straw at a time. Any heart that rejects them will receive a white spot, and any heart that immerses in them will receive a black spot, until the heart becomes one of two hearts: One is white like a smooth rock (i.e. tribulations cannot latch onto it due to its smoothness, and it does not become affected due to its hardness and firmness upon iman), which is not affected by any fitnah as long as the heavens and the earth remain, and the other is black, having gradually changed color and become like an overturned jug, neither recognizing good nor denouncing evil, except for what it was immersed in of its desires.” And there is Abu Bakr as-Siddiq, the merciful and compassionate, – may my father and mother be ransomed for him – who drew for us an apparent way and a clear path when he was reached by a message concerning a prisoner whose people offered for his ransom such-and-such. He said, “Kill him, for the killing of a man from the mushrikin is more beloved to me than such-and-such.” And some mediators attempted to save this disbelieving foreigner and offered us whatever we wanted of wealth, but despite our urgent need for finances which we utilize for the urgency of jihad we decided to avenge our sisters and to take revenge for our ummah. And we have indeed promised Allah that we would revive the old affair and follow the ways of the rightlyguided. And did not our merciful, compassionate Prophet g say, “I have come to you with slaughter.” So the hearts of the cruel, arrogant nobles of Quraysh were filled with dread, and they stood in fear and awe of him and came forward to appease and implore him, though they had previously been mocking and belittling him. And we say, if the Ummah would have drawn its swords, stood up, mobilized its armies, and moved towards Washington in pursuit of revenge, and then the slaughter came, with the winds changing direction and scattering the armies…then it would have been a different matter, but where is my ummah concerning that which transpired and is still happening to the Muslims in Iraq, Palestine, Afghanistan, Indonesia, Chechnya, and elsewhere...Is my Ummah unable to do anything other than weep and wail, hold peaceful demonstrations, and issue criticism and condemnation? What have the armies of demonstrators done for Afghanistan?? What has the Ummah done for the women of Sarajevo, Indonesia, Kashmir, Palestine, and Iraq whose honor was tarnished within sight and hearing of the Ummah altogether? By Allah, if there were left in us only a little bit of jealousy and the like for our sister, then sleep would not have appealed to us, and we would not find pleasure with women in bed until those bereaved ones were saved. Woe to you, o my ummah! Your women are in the hands of the worshippers of the Cross, who are abusing them, and no one is responding! Every defeatist has taken back his captive people None remain imprisoned except for our people And I have not seen any humiliating whips covered in blood Except that I saw upon them the flesh of our captive people And in past eras we would not die at the edge of blades Even our deaths feel embarrassed to meet us In order to awaken the people’s resolve and bring comfort to the eyes of the muwahhidin in the East and the West, we have resolved not to ransom this foreign disbeliever, even if they were to pay us his weight in gold. For indeed, we have promised Allah not to ransom any captive – while conceding to its permissibility – so that the enemies of Allah know that there is no lenience and no mercy for them in our hearts… So either the captives are freed…or there will be slaughter… I am endlessly astonished at some defeatists from among the people of impotence and cowardice, who have killed our religion, and have become pleased with humiliation, at their forefront being Harith ad-Dari, the Secretary General for the Committee of Muslim Scholars in Iraq, who stated in some of his private gatherings that he can no longer raise his head because of the slaughtering of the American and the South Korean missionary. So I say to him: I was thinking before that you would dig a grave and sleep in it until death comes to you out of embarrassment about your inability to aid your Muslim sisters, whose honor is being violated in Abu Ghurayb Prison, which lies only a few hundred meters away from your house, or that you would swear not to wear an ‘uqal [traditional Arabic headband] on your head, nor taste food, nor close your eyelids until you save your sisters or die trying…but unfortunately none of that has happened... The extent of your jihad is to extend your love to the Rafidah. Do you not remember your stance of humiliation and shame – which will disgrace you until the Day of Judgment – when the meetings of evil brought you together with Jawwad al-Khalisi and you addressed him, saying, “I heard of your patience and forbearing, so I committed myself to kissing your head if I were to meet you, and now is the time to fulfill that.” Then you quickly stood and kissed a head filled with spite towards Islam, a head whose tongue doesn’t weaken from insulting the honor of your prophet g. Tell me, by your Lord….with what face will you meet your Prophet on the Day of Judgment? You were truly a predator against the people of Islam when you accused the symbols of jihad of being agents… But you were a tame lamb with the Rafidah, so you donated our mosques to them with your claim that they are merely stones and that others can be built. So we complain to Allah about you and we will make you stand before Him and question you, and Allah is sufficient for us and the best disposer of affairs. And one is indeed astonished at the patience of the enemies of the religion in their war against the Muslims, and their sacrifice of their souls and hearts and time for the sake of supporting their falsehood. Allah c said, “And the eminent among them went forth, [saying], ‘Continue, and be patient over [the defense of] your gods. Indeed, this is a thing intended’” (Sad 6). They traverse the deserts and wastelands with their fleets and their giant armies in order to spread their false creeds and to spill their blood, and they kill themselves for the sake of their falsehood. Yes, the British Daily Telegraph newspaper recently published a report which indicates that Iraq has become a hotbed for missionary activities, and it pointed out that the members of missionary groups in the United States began their missionary activities under the title, “Saving Souls in Iraq.” The leaders of these groups stated that the American occupation of Iraq brought forth a historical opportunity to guide the confused souls of the Iraqi people, whether they were Muslims or Orthodox Christians. The director of the International Mission Board, John Brady, who is responsible for missionary activities in the Middle East, said that the members of the Baptist Church, whose numbers reach 16 million, were requested by the church before the war to keep supplicating for the conquest of Iraq. And John Hannah – one of the missionaries – said after his visit to Iraq, “The American missionaries are carrying a great responsibility. The doors are all open, the means for preaching are available, and military support is present to save the Iraqis from the values that are opposed to Christianity and Christians.”