Indeed, our brothers in Mosul displayed steadfastness, perseverance, and conviction in the face of disbelief and its various forms, something not witnessed by history until today. And indeed the kuffar had gathered and rallied thousands of soldiers and vehicles, but they were confronted by the lions of the Islamic State, who massacred them and tore them to pieces, after inflicting upon them losses reaching into the tens of thousands in regards to both soldiers and vehicles – with the permission of Allah c and His assistance. The kuffar were incapable of comprehending the determination of the men and women of the Islamic State, who could be stopped by the immanence of death, nor by their enemies’ planes. The believer sees the dunya as a prison and instead looks for relief in obedience towards Allah, and in the Battle of Mosul many of our brothers and sisters were liberated from this prison whereby they attained – by Allah’s permission – shahadah in the cause of Allah. One of the kafir news outlets stated, “From the first day of the Battle of Mosul the army of the Islamic State resolved to fight down to the last soldier, which is the first time this has occurred in the history of the war against terrorism in this age.” These people do not understand. They cannot grasp that every soldier of the Khilafah is upon the same ‘aqidah and methodology, all seeking to be killed in Allah’s cause. Yes, the soldiers of the Islamic State – without exception – are all prepared to fight in the cause of Allah down to their last drop of blood. And so we give glad tidings to the kuffar that the soldiers of the Khilafah will conquer the land of Sham in its entirety, even if after some time, and will eventually reach their lands, with Allah’s permission. Here, we present to you “A Mujahid’s Memories from the Battle of Mosul,” an article that illustrates the brutal war in the heart of Mosul, which transformed doctors and medical assistants into soldiers and heroes who were prepared to sacrifice in defense of their religion. As for the Battle of Raqqah, the Crusaders and their murtadd proxies claimed that they are capable of leading the battle without losing large numbers of soldiers and without sustaining losses and defeats. They also claimed that they would “liberate” Raqqah in a span of time that does not exceed a number of weeks, but they will suffer failure and disappointment, and they will incur losses – with Allah’s permission – and will then be filled with regret. And in this regard, we present to you an interview with the military commander for Raqqah Wilayah, who talks about the ongoing battle in Raqqah Wilayah and how it is being administered. In another part of the world, the soldiers of the Khilafah have proven once again – this time in Marawi – that there are no borders when establishing the Islamic State, and that the determination to reside under Allah’s shari’ah and raise His word is not something restricted to any particular time or place. And as long as the Book of Allah remains in the breasts of those seeking its implementation, then let the kuffar be prepared to confront armies marching forth in order to shed their blood. The example of our brothers in Marawi is present in every land: It is present in the Arabian Peninsula, Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia, Turkistan, and even Malaysia, and the banner of the Islamic State will flutter fly in every part of the world – with Allah’s permission – even if the enemies of Allah and the enemies of the believers hate that. And there is no ability or strength except with Allah. In this issue, we begin with an article titled, “The Muslim Society between Human Reality and Misleading Fantasies,” which gives us a glimpse at the society established by the Prophet g and his companions. This society did not stop with the establishment of Allah’s shari’ah and the implementation of the hudud alone. Rather, it was a society that called to good and clarified the path to forgiveness. And in the article titled, “Rulings Related to Giving Da’wah to the Harbi Kuffar,” we clarify matters related to giving da’wah to the harbi (belligerent) kuffar both before fighting them and during the fighting. “The Female Slaves of Allah in the Houses of Allah - Rulings and Etiquettes” is an article that clarifies what is obligatory for women to know before they head out to the masajid. Finally, we present to you “Important Advice for the Mujahidin: Part 2,” where we mention the advice of Abu Mus’ab az-Zarqawi r to the mujahidin in Allah’s cause. We ask Allah to preserve all those– both far and near – who contributed to the success of this issue.