Indeed, many Muslim women today have memorized the hadith, “Do not prevent the female slaves of Allah from the masajid of Allah,” which is reported by al-Bukhari and Muslim. However, few of them have knowledge of the rulings related to the masajid and the guidelines for heading out to the masajid and praying in them. So if you, O Muslimah, have to head out to the masjid, then read these words so that perhaps they may benefit you and you may use them to distance yourself from any forbidden matters. The Default with Regards to the Woman Is for Her to Remain in Her Home Know, my Muslim sister – may Allah guide you to all that is good – that the default with regards to the woman is for her to remain in her home, and that the prayer which you perform in your house is better than the prayer you perform in the masjid. Likewise, anyone who ponders the hadith of our prophet g, “Do not prevent the female slaves of Allah from the masajid of Allah” will notice that despite him g forbidding the people from preventing the women from going to the masajid, he did not encourage the women to pray with the Jama’ah, nor did he mention its virtues as he did in the case of the men when he encouraged them to pray with the Jama’ah. Rather, we find in the hadith of ‘Abdullah Ibn ‘Umar , that after he g forbade preventing women from the masajid, he followed it up with his statement, “and their houses are better for them.” In fact, the woman’s prayer in her house is even better than her prayer in the masjid of the Prophet g, for Umm Humayd as-Sa’idiyyah narrated that she came to Allah’s Messenger g and said, “O Messenger of Allah, I love praying with you.” He said, “I have known that, and yet your prayer in your room is better than your prayer in your home, and your prayer in your home is better than your prayer in the masjid of your people, and your prayer in the masjid of your people is better than your prayer in the masjid of the Jama’ah” (Reported by Ahmad). Guidelines for Leaving the House It is upon a woman who wishes to leave her house and go to the masjid to ask her husband for permission, and it is forbidden for her to go to the masjid having put on perfume and beautified herself. Abu Hurayrah narrated that the Prophet g said, “Do not prevent the female slaves of Allah from the masajid of Allah, and [when they go to the masjid] let them go without putting on perfume” (Reported by Abu Dawud). Imam Muslim r reported in the hadith of Zaynab, the wife of ‘Abdullah Ibn Mas’ud , that she said, “Allah’s Messenger g told us, ‘If one of you [women] attends the masjid, let her not touch any perfume.” Musa Ibn Yasar narrated, saying, “A woman passed by Abu Hurayrah and her scent was wafting, so he said, ‘Where are you going, O female slave of Al-Jabbar (the All- Powerful)?’ She said, ‘To the masjid.’ He said, ‘And you put on perfume?’ She said, ‘Yes.’ So he said, ‘Go back and take a bath, for indeed I heard the Prophet g say, ‘Allah will not accept any prayer from a woman who goes to the masjid with her perfume wafting until she goes back and takes a bath’ (Reported by Ibn Khuzaymah, and by al-Bayhaqi in al-Adab). And in general, a woman wearing perfume when she leaves her house is prohibited regardless of whether she is going to the masjid or elsewhere, and it is not permissible for anyone to smell the fragrance of a woman other than her husband and her maharim (near-relatives). And on her way to the masjid, the woman must avoid walking in the middle of the path and should instead stick to the sides of the path. Hamzah Ibn Abi Usayd al-Ansari reported that his father narrated that Allah’s Messenger g came out of the masjid and the men had mixed with the women on the road, so he said to the women, “Remain back, as it is not for you [women] to dominate the road. Stay on the sides of the path.” So the women would walk adjacent to the wall, so much so that their garments would get caught on the wall due to them walking so closely to it (Reported by Abu Dawud and at Tabarani). The Sunan and Etiquettes of Entering the Masjid As for when a woman enters the masjid, it is legislated for her to pray two rak’at before sitting down. Abu Qatadah  said, “The Prophet g said, ‘When one of you enters the masjid, let him not sit down until he has prayed two rak’at’” (Reported by al-Bukhari and Muslim). And if the woman enters the masjid and the iqamah has already been called, there is no prayer at that point other than the obligatory prayer. Abu Hurayrah  narrated that the Prophet g said, “When the iqamah is called, there is no prayer other than the obligatory prayer” (Reported by Muslim). It is upon the Muslimah to seek out the last of the women’s rows for prayer, for Abu Hurayrah  said, “Allah’s Messenger g said, ‘The best row for the men is the first row and the worst is the last row, and the best row for the women is the last row and the worst is the first row’” (Reported by Muslim). So we find that the Legislator takes the utmost concern to distance her from the men, and prevents her from mixing with them even in the houses of Allah, which have not been established except for obedience and worship. And from the Sunnah is that the woman claps her hands if something happens to her during her prayer. Abu Hurayrah  narrated that the Prophet g said, “Tasbih (saying ‘subhanallah’) is for the men and clapping is for the women” (Reported by al-Bukhari and Muslim). As for the manner of clapping, the fuqaha have a difference of opinion on it. Some of them said that the woman claps the palms of her hands, and some of them said that she claps the palm of one hand using the back of the other hand, and some of them said that she claps the palm of her left hand using two of the fingers on her right hand. However, if there are no men present, there is no harm in a woman making tasbih, as was done by Ummul- Muminin ‘Aishah with her sister Asma  during the kusuf (eclipse) prayer, as the only thing to beware of is making tasbih in the presence of men due to the fear that they would hear the woman’s voice and it would become a temptation for them. Once the imam has completed the prayer, it is upon the women to leave the masjid before the men. Umm Salamah  narrated that the women in the time of the Prophet g would get up [to leave] once they had given the salam at the end of the obligatory prayer, while Allah’s Messenger g and those men praying with him would remain in their place for as long as Allah willed. Then, when Allah’s Messenger g got up, the men would get up” (Reported by al-Bukhari). That Which Is Forbidden in the Masajid It is not permissible for men to noisily raise their voices inside the masjid, and this is even more strictly prohibited and more harshly forbidden when it comes to women. As- Saib Ibn Yazid  said, “I was standing in the masjid and someone threw some pebbles at me. So I looked and it was ‘Umar Ibn al-Khattab. He said, ‘Go and bring these two to me.’ So I went and brought them to him. He said, ‘Who are you two?’ They said, ‘We are from the people of Taif.’ He said, ‘If you had been from the people of this town I would have hurt you. You are raising your voices in the masjid of Allah’s Messenger’” (Reported by al-Bukhari). And some women today – may Allah rectify them – do not refrain from raising their voices. In fact, you might even hear some of them laughing loudly when they are in the house of Allah c, and they show no concern for their violation of this shar’i guideline. So let the Muslimah beware of the consequences of that – even though speaking is allowed – due to the aforementioned hadith of as-Saib Ibn Yazid . And if a Muslimah enters the masjid and finds that the women’s prayer area is crowded, as is typically the case during the Eid or Jumu’ah prayers, she must not step over the people’s necks in order to reach the front rows so she can join one of her friends or relatives. ‘Abdullah Ibn Yusr  narrated that a man came to the Prophet g as he was giving the khutubah on the day of Jumu’ah, and the Prophet g said, “Sit down, for you have harmed the people and have come late” (Reported by Abu Dawud and Ahmad). The Muslimah must also beware of a mistake which some women commit – the act of buying and selling inside the masjid. The masajid were not built for this purpose, for Abu Hurayrah  narrates that Allah’s Messenger g said, “If you see someone selling or buying in the masjid, then say, ‘May Allah not give you profit in your trade’” (Reported by Ibn Khuzaymah and at-Tirmidhi). Likewise, if someone loses something and then comes and inquires in the masjid in search of it, it is from the Sunnah for the woman who hears her inquiring about it to make du’a against her. Abu Hurayrah  narrated, saying, “Allah’s Messenger g said, ‘If anyone hears a man asking in the masjid about something he has lost, let him say, ‘May Allah not return it to you,’ for the masajid were not built for this” (Reported by Muslim). Likewise, it is permissible for the Muslimah to participate in gatherings held in the masajid for Quran memorization and for seeking shar’i knowledge. Abu Hurayrah  said, “Allah’s Messenger g said, ‘…And no people gather in one of the houses of Allah, reciting the Book of Allah and studying it among themselves, except that tranquility descends upon them, mercy envelops them, the angels cover them, and Allah mentions them to those with Him’” (Reported by Muslim). As for a woman who is either menstruating or is in the stage of post-partum bleeding, it is not permissible for her to stay in the masjid, but it is permissible to go out for the two Eid prayers if the prayer is taking place in an open area and if she is not afraid of soiling herself. However, she does not join the prayer, and instead suffices with simply listening to the khutbah and making du’a for the Muslims. Umm ‘Atiyyah  said, “Allah’s Messenger g ordered us to take them out on Eid al-Fitr and Eid al-Adha – the slave-girls who’d reached puberty, the menstruating women, and those women who remain in their bedrooms. As for the menstruating women, they would avoid the prayer but would witness the goodness and the da’wah of the Muslims. I said, ‘O Messenger of Allah! Some of us might not have a jilbab.’ He said, ‘Let her sister clothe her with her jilbab’” (Reported by al Bukhari and Muslim). In conclusion, the Muslimah must know that the masajid are the houses of Allah, and are the most beloved sites to Him c. So let her beware of coming to the masajid in order to disobey Allah therein, whether by manifesting her beauty, or wearing perfume, or raising her voice, or being noisy and excited. And if she sees a sin being committed, let her advise her sisters with gentleness and not chase them away, and let her remember that a Bedouin urinated in the masjid of our prophet, and yet he g did not rebuke him. Rather, he taught him and clarified for him his mistake in the most lenient and gentle of ways. And Allah knows best. And our final call is: all praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the creation. O Allah, send blessings and peace upon the leader of the prophets and messengers.