As the soldiers of the Khilafah continue waging war on the forces of kufr, we take a glimpse at a number of recent operations conducted by the mujahidin of the Islamic State that have succeeded in expanding the territory of the Khilafah, or terrorizing, massacring, and humiliating the enemies of Allah. These operations are merely a selection of the numerous operations that the Islamic State has conducted on various fronts across many regions over the course of the last few weeks. East Asia On the 4th of Shawwal, the soldiers of the Khilafah in East Asia succeeded in killing 13 Crusader Filipino soldiers during clashes in the various neighborhoods in the city of Marawi. Likewise, an armored vehicle belonging to the Crusaders was targeted in the Marinut neighborhood with an RPG, destroying the vehicle and killing at least 5 soldiers who were inside. On the 22nd of Shawwal, the soldiers of the Khilafah succeeded in killing 7 Crusader Filipino soldiers during clashes in the Laylud and Marinut neighborhoods. Likewise, an armored vehicle of theirs was destroyed after detonating an explosive device in the Marinut neighborhood in the city of Marawi. On the 23rd of Shawwal, the soldiers of the Khilafah succeeded in killing 6 Crusader Filipino soldiers during the course of clashes in the Marinut and Monkado neighborhoods in the city of Marawi. On the 26th of Shawwal, a Filipino soldier was killed while another was wounded during clashes in the Marinut neighborhood in the city of Marawi. On the 28th of Shawwal, the soldiers of the Khilafah succeeded in killing three Crusader Filipino soldiers during the course of clashes in the Baling neighborhood, while sniping a fourth in the Marinut neighborhood in the city of Marawi. Khurasan Wilayah On the 12th of Shawwal, the soldiers of the Khilafah succeeded in assassinating three members of the murtadd Taliban Movement after raiding their locations in the area of Sarah Qal’ah in Nangarhar. On the 13th of Shawwal, the soldiers of the Khilafah succeeded in assassinating a leader of a murtadd Pakistani government allied militia and two of his escorts using firearms in the city of Quetta in the region of Baluchistan. On the 17th of Shawwal, the soldiers of the Khilafah succeeded in assassinating a spy working for Afghan government interests in the city of Jalalabad, towards the east of Afghanistan. On the 20th of Shawwal, a number of the soldiers of the Khilafah attacked a convoy belonging to the murtadd Afghan army in the area Tora Bora, where the convoy was surrounded in a controlled ambush and targeted with explosive devices and various weapons, resulting in 7 murtaddin being killed, while the others fled towards some houses that were previously rigged with explosives, whereby several of them were killed and wounded. Meanwhile, a support vehicle that was heading towards an American base was disabled after it was ambushed in the city of Jalalabad. Likewise, an officer and four members of the murtadd Pakistani police were killed after an assault launched by the soldiers of the Khilafah in the city of Quetta, towards the west of Pakistan. On the 22nd of Shawwal, two members of the nationalist Taliban Movement were killed in clashes with the soldiers of the Khilafah in the area of Jakanah in the administrative district of Darzab located in Juzjan. On the 1st of Dhul-Qa’dah the soldiers of the Khilafah succeeded in repelling a joint assault carried out by the murtadd Afghan army and the Crusader coalition on the village of Mariz located in Dah Bala in Nangarhar. Clashes ensued involving various weapons, resulting in four of the attackers being killed – among them Crusaders – and a number of others being wounded, leading to them retreating in defeat. Sinai Wilayah On the 13th of Shawwal, the soldiers of the Khilafah succeeded in assassinating a secretary for the murtadd Misri army in the area of ‘Azbat Malim in the middle of the city of ‘Arish. On the 14th of Shawwal, a number of Islamic State soldiers carried out a blessed raid, setting out towards a gathering point of the murtadd Misri army and the Sahwat in the area of Birth south of Rafah, where they were preparing to launch a military campaign on the mujahidin’s positions. The murtaddin were confronted by the istishhadi Rayyan al-Ansari – may Allah accept him – with his explosivesladen vehicle, with which he struck their gathering, killing and wounding dozens of them. The explosion likewise destroyed three Humvees and disabled a number of others. This was followed by several inghimasiyyin storming in with various weapons to finish off those who remained alive from among the soldiers of the taghut, and to clear the building in which they had been stationed. Meanwhile, the murtaddin dispatched a support convoy to the area, but were confronted by the istishhadi Abul-Layth al-Misri – may Allah accept him – who he detonated his explosives-laden vehicle within the midst of the convoy, killing and wounding many of them, in addition to destroying two Humvees and disabling a number of others. The raid resulted in the killing and wounding of more than 60 murtaddin, among them an officer ranked colonel, while 5 inghimasiyyin attained shahadah – we consider them so and Allah is their judge. West Africa Wilayah On the 15th of Shawwal, a number of the soldiers of the Khilafah stormed Nigerian Army positions in the town of Kamiya in the area of Yobe towards the northeast of Nigeria, killing 12 murtaddin and taking various weapons and ammunition as ghanimah. Bayda Wilayah On the 17th of Shawwal, three Houthi fighters were killed after they were targeted by an explosive device in the administrative district of Qifah northwest of Bayda. On the 18th of Shawwal, a 4-wheel drive vehicle belonging to the Houthi mushrikin was destroyed after it was targeted with an explosive device in the area of Qifah, killing three of their fighters who were inside. On the 19th of Shawwal, three Houthi mushrikin fighters were killed after an explosive device was detonated on a check point of theirs in Dar Najd in the administrative district of Qifah, northwest of Bayda. On the 20th of Shawwal, a number of the soldiers of the Khilafah stormed Huthi mushrikin positions in the area of Qifah, where a checkpoint belonging to them was targeted in the area of ‘Ajma. Likewise, another gathering of theirs between the areas of Qarshiyyah and Mukah was targeted killing and wounding several of them. Meanwhile, three murtaddin were killed after an explosive device was detonated at the entrance of the city of Radi’, while the mujahidin returned safely to their positions. Raqqah Wilayah On the 6th of Shawwal, a number of the soldiers of the Khilafah stormed murtadd PKK positions in the industrial district, and in the neighborhood of Mashlab, and near the Barazi roundabout, and near Ittihad University, where fierce clashes for several hours involving various weapons, resulting in 30 murtaddin being killed and others wounded. Likewise, sniper units succeeded in targeting them in the Rumaniyyah and Jazrah neighborhoods, and near the Furusiyyah and Barazi roundabouts, killing 12 murtaddin and wounding three others. On the 7th of Shawwal, an Islamic State covert unit succeeded in detonating a car bomb in front of the house of the murtadd Fawaz al-Bayk in the town of Mansurah in the western countryside of the wilayah where PKK leaders were gathered in his house, resulting in him being severely wounded and 5 PKK leaders being killed. On the 10th of Shawwal, two inghimasi groups attacked murtadd PKK positions in the village of Kasrat Muhammad ‘Ali south of the city of Raqqah, where the murtaddin were taken by surprise and 30 fighters of their were killed, while four inghimasiyyin attained shahadah – we consider them as such and Allah is their judge – while the remainder returned safely back to their positions. On the 1st of Dhul-Qa’dah several mujahidin stormed into the midst of murtadd PKK positions in the area of Sakan ash-Shababi east of the city of Raqqah, where clashes ensued between the two sides, resulting in 20 murtaddin being killed and wounded, while the mujahidin succeeded in burning down three of the murtaddin’s positions and returning safely back to their own positions. Meanwhile, the istishhadi Kashmiri – may Allah accept him – detonated his explosives-laden vehicle on a murtadd PKK base in the Hisham Ibn ‘Abdil-Malik neighborhood towards the south of Raqqah, resulting in at least 11 murtaddin being killed and a number of others being wounded. Furat Wilayah A number of the soldiers of the Khilafah armed with various weapons stormed a base belonging to a Rafidi Mobilization and Rafidi army brigade in the area of Jamunah near Tanaf, where fierce clashes ensued, resulting in more than 28 murtaddin being killed, and 8 barracks and 6 military vehicles being burned, while the mujahidin returned safely to their positions after taking weapons and ammunition as ghanimah. Dijlah Wilayah On the 12th of Shawwal, a number of the soldiers of the Khilafah assaulted Rafidi Mobilization positions in the village of Imam Gharbi south of Qayyarah, as well as in the villages of Khadraniyyah and Huriyah north of Shirqat, resulting in 6 murtaddin being killed and one of their barracks in the village of Khadraniyyah being destroyed. Likewise, 21 murtaddin were killed and a number of others were wounded, and 7 of their barracks were destroyed and one of their Humvees was burned in the village of Imam Gharbi, with the mujahidin also taking weapons and ammunition as ghanimah. Meanwhile, 16 Rafidi Mobilization fighters were killed during the course of clashes within the same village, wherein a Humvee and three other military vehicles belonging to them were destroyed. Likewise, several more of their fighters were killed when one of their gatherings was targeted with a guided missile in the village of Khadraniyyah north of Shirqat. Ninawa Wilayah On the 30th of Shawwal, a number of inghimasi of the soldiers of the Islamic State succeeded in assaulting the gatherings of the Rafidi Mobilization in the village of Sahabi west of Mosul, resulting in more than 45 of them being killed.