Battles have been ignited on the edges of the city, which has become an arena for those desiring one of the two good outcomes, and a graveyard for the murtaddin and their allies. Anyone who witnessed the Battle of Mosul knows with certainty that the Battle of Raqqah will be nothing but a loss and source of regret for the murtaddin and their supporters, for the kuffar will not advance one handbreadth in the land of Islam until their mourners wail over blood that was spilled as a sacrifice for the Crusaders, just as the blood of the Rafidah was spilled in Mosul, and not a single home will be void of the wailing of their mourners, with the permission of Allah c. With Allah’s bounty and support, we were able to conduct an interview with the military commander in the city of Raqqah, who sheds light for our readers on the condition of our brothers in these battles. Question: Tell us about Raqqah Wilayah and its strategic importance, as well as the current military situation there and the morale of the mujahidin in the wilayah. Answer: All praise is due to Allah, alone. May blessings and peace be upon he after whom there is no other prophet. As for what follows: Raqqah is significant for another special reason beyond its military and strategic importance, as it was among the first cities which the mujahidin conquered – by the grace of Allah c – and in which they spread the pure ‘aqidah of tawhid and waged war against kufr in all its various forms. Raqqah was the base from which the Islamic State expanded, and the center for the Khilafah’s operations on the various fronts. As for its strategic importance, Raqqah is geographically located between the Turkish lands and the important regions in the lands of Sham, and it can be said that it is the center of mass for the cities located north of the Furat. As for the mujahidin, their morale is high, they have a desire to fight, by Allah’s grace, and they are aiming for one of only two goals: Either they attain shahadah and meet the Lord of the creation, or they attain victory, conquest, and consolidation, inshaallah. Question: What are the Crusaders and their agents aiming to achieve in the region with their campaign against Raqqah? Answer: The main goal of the Crusader campaign is to wipe out Islam and the Muslims, and to turn the people back from their religion after tawhid had returned to them following a period in which the people did not know tawhid. The most important military goals for the campaign against Raqqah are: • Distancing the mujahidin from a vital economic and military center. • Ousting the mujahidin of the Islamic State from one of their largest cities, with the belief that in doing so they would succeed in significantly reducing the number of Muslims who join the Islamic State. • Giving the atheists an opportunity to establish a small state for themselves near Turkish territory, with the belief that this would prevent the mujahidin from entering Europe through the Turkish border crossings. • That the Crusaders reach the banks of the Furat River and take control of the most important of the cities along the river – the city of Raqqah – as well as the major dams. • Deluding the East and the West into believing that the Crusader and atheist capture of Raqqah would deal a fatal blow to the mujahidin and would be a factor that would wipe out the Khilafah. However, they will fail miserably, inshaallah, for the Khilafah will remain – with Allah’s permission – until the establishment of the Hour. Question: How have the soldiers of the Khilafah and their leaders prepared for the defense of the wilayah in general and the city of Raqqah in specific? Answer: Allah c has facilitated for the mujahidin a number of means for fighting and repelling the Crusader campaign and massacring the enemies of Allah. At the start of the campaign, the mujahidin in the wilayah began by wearing down the Crusader force, at times by defending against their attacks, at times by counterattacking, and at times by striking the enemy deep in their territory and by setting up ambushes inside their territory or in areas the kuffar were expected to enter. These operations had a significant effect on the kafir and murtadd troops, whose legions began displaying anxiety, confusion, and fear, and whose hearts were filled with terror. Among the most successful means of defense against the murtaddin’s advance was to booby-trap the places where they were likely to advance, particularly any strategic locations, and places where the enemy wanted to give the impression of having obtained a victory. Also among the means employed was the distribution of sniper units using various types of weapons – including both large-caliber and small-caliber snipers – throughout strategic locations where the enemy was exposed, as well as in high places, such as buildings. We also employed explosive vehicles, which attacked the gatherings and vehicles of the kuffar that could not be reached with any other weapons, such as projectiles. The brothers also made use of camouflage – an important tool for achieving success in battle – and also divided the city into small sections that could function individually in emergency situations and could independently pursue their objectives. Likewise, these sections would each have their own supplies and ammunition, and would be independent of one another in that regard. They would also function independently in terms assessing locations and organizing troops. Another means we employed was that we set up workshops for the repair and maintenance of weapons, and also for the purpose of manufacturing weapons after the Islamic State – by Allah’s grace – demonstrated a talent for developing weapons, such as aerial weapons, drones, anti-building weapons, sniper weapons, silencers, explosive devices, and other types of weapons which Allah has bestowed upon the mujahidin and which we have not yet revealed. Question: Our brothers in Mosul and its vicinity exhausted the kuffar and murtaddin, and the kuffar have openly stated time and again that they expect the Battle of Raqqah to be a long and exhausting battle as well. What effect does the Battle of Mosul have on the Battle of Raqqah? Answer: The brothers in Mosul had a significant effect on the rest of the wilayat of the Islamic State, and this is due to the massive extent of their resolve and their punishment of the mushrik enemies of Allah. And even though the kuffar had assembled against them, the brothers in Mosul employed new tactics that surprised the largest of the taghut organizations in the world, despite these nations mobilizing a very large and militarily advanced force. Likewise, Allah c bestowed upon the brothers in Mosul some simple means with which they massacred and humiliated the kuffar and murtaddin. The brothers’ experiences have been passed on to all the wilayat for so they could benefit from them, both militarily and in terms of iman, and they have indeed excused themselves before their Lord and have set a standard that is difficult to reach, so may Allah reward them on behalf of Islam and the Muslims with the best of rewards. And indeed, we give glad tidings to Muslims everywhere that the Battle of Raqqah will not be a picnic for the murtaddin and their supporters. Rather, it will be a fire that burns the Cross and its people, gives honor to the Islamic State, and raises its banner, and will be a harsh lesson for the enemies of Allah, with Allah’s permission. Question: The Crusaders have carried out several special forces raids, and some of them have failed, firstly due to Allah’s grace and secondly due to the brothers who stood and repelled their operations. Tell us about the role of this type of operation in the battle and why they would resort to it, and tell us how you confront this type of operation. Answer: The Crusader army has become accustomed to raising the morale of its crumbling army from time to time, and it does this by deploying its massive arsenal of planes and by making a big deal out of these special forces raids through the use of its deceitful media. These raids don’t occur in any areas other than deserts – areas that are void of men, stones, and trees – and such areas comprise large sections of the Islamic State as you know. As for the operations that failed, Allah c facilitated for some of our brothers to set up several ambushes and to wait for the murtaddin to carry out a special forces raid, anticipating that this would occur in certain areas which the Crusader army demonstrated its inability to penetrate. Among these areas was the Furat Dam, where the Crusader army failed in several attempts to descend on the area, whether by air or by land. So the preparations which Allah facilitated for the soldiers of the Khilafah to make proved to be a fatal blow to the military minds that fervently endeavor to decisively end the battle through aerial confrontation or other cunning means. Question: What is your message to the Crusaders and their supporters from among the murtaddin? Answer: I say to the armies and legions of the Cross and to its ruined herds: History has recorded the battles of the Muslims time and again, and how they had crushed the armies of the Cross in their own homelands and had done so when the Crusaders were at the peak of their strength. Allah c aided His slaves in several places and allowed the Muslims to kill and imprison the kuffar. He c made the Crusaders, in past eras, race to pay the jizyah to the Muslims, to the extent that they would come humiliated and debased, offering their obedience to the believing slaves of Allah. And indeed, Allah c will fulfill His promise concerning the disbelievers in this era, and we will certainly reach their homelands just as we had done so previously, and Allah will make us inherit their land and their homes, as well as other lands which we have not trodden before, inshaallah. This is the promise of Allah, and Allah does not fail in His promise. Question: What is your message to the munafiqin within our ranks who are lurking in wait and wish for the kuffar to achieve victory over us, and who want the rule of democracy? Answer: I say to every munafiq hiding among the ranks of the Muslims: Repent to Allah c, for neither the army of the effeminate nor the tawaghit will be of benefit to you, nor will your play and amusement benefit you. You have come to know and see that we are ferocious in battle, and that we are strong fighters who do not lag behind from fighting. And you have seen that we are not heedless of any kafir, and that we do not forget any murtadd even after a long period of time. And if you believe that the final outcome will be for the kuffar and murtaddin from among the armies of the tawaghit, then you will truly be disappointed, for Allah has guaranteed us victory and has promised you defeat. So repent to Allah c before we overpower you, for you know how harsh we are on the kuffar and their supporters, and however much you hide among the Muslims, wearing the clothes they wear in order to conceal yourself, Allah c will expose you and shame you. And I would like to direct a message to all the mujahidin on the various fronts. Know, my brothers – may Allah safeguard you – that victory of the mujahidin after their display of patience is a universal sunnah, and you will not find in the sunnah of Allah any change. However, patience and steadfastness are not just words. Rather, it is to hold onto hot embers until Allah completes this matter. And none will remain steadfast in the face of tribulations except one who exerts himself in pursuing the appropriate means towards that end…and the best of these means are iman and fear of the AlMighty, the Bestower… When the winds of despair intensify The hardship of their intensity is followed by ease In Allah we have hope and take solace And with Allah one’s hopes are not left disappointed