An official from among the Crusaders commented on the matter of their targeting the soldiers of the Islamic State, saying, “They have entered into war, and they should expect that their deaths will be one of the outcomes.” Indeed, the statement that Allah g placed on the tongue of this kafir is a truth that cannot be argued, particularly with the soldiers of the Islamic State. In fact, the reality is that when the mujahidin proceed towards battle, death is not just a possibility for them, it is a wish that they seek and endeavor to attain, for death in this case is shahadah in the cause of Allah, and through it the believer attains the highest of ranks with the Lord of the heavens and the earth. However, it seems that the Crusaders have yet to grasp the reality of what was stated by one of their officials, and for this reason we find them displaying a significant degree of surprise and shock whenever they are attacked in their lands by the soldiers of the Islamic State. It is as if they live in another world altogether, different from the one in which their armies are engaged in a grinding war against the army of the Islamic State, exerting their efforts in order to destroy the lands of Islam and to kill as many of the women and children of the Muslims – both young and old – as they can. This is not the first time that the Crusader states have been led to war by America – the carrier of the banner of the Cross in this era – and neither is it the first time that they have paid a heavy price for following their tawaghit in their war against the Muslims. What is apparent is that whenever the tawaghit of the European states dispatch their armies to fight and kill the Muslims under America’s banner, they only calculate the gains they will achieve by taking part in that war and forget to gauge the heavy cost they will be forced to pay in order to achieve the gains that they dream of. Spain experimented with this matter before, allowing herself to be led by the obeyed fool, Bush, in his invasion of Iraq as she dreamt of the oilfields and the potential revenue from construction. But she found the army that she had sent there at the forefront of targets being struck by the mujahidin, who continued making them suffer until Spain was forced to withdraw its troops from Iraq in humiliation, with her soldiers licking their wounds and her government being cursed by its citizens. It appears, however, that this lesson wasn’t enough for the Crusaders to take heed. So when a later government claimed that it had understood the first lesson and resolved not to have its army take part in a direct ground war, it made the decision instead to take part in the war against the Islamic State by training the Rafidi army and providing it with extensive support in order to pay its share of the expenses under the framework of taking part in the international Crusader coalition established by America in order to fight the Islamic State. And just as she had not taken a lesson from her prior experiment, she likewise had not taken a lesson from the experiments of the other western Crusader states waging war against the Muslims – states which are even more powerful than Spain and have better intelligence capabilities and more secure borders, such as Britain, France, Germany, and America, and which have all, nonetheless, faced the wrath of the soldiers of the Islamic State, who rushed forth in response to their leadership’s incitement to fight the kuffar in their own homelands. So Spain continued in her war against the Muslims, believing herself to be very distant from what had afflicted her sisters. And today, the soldiers of the Islamic State have repeated in multiple lands what their heroic brothers have done in other Crusader states, punishing the states of Turkey, Spain, Russia, Belgium, and other lands of the Crusaders and murtaddin. In Turkey, a lion of the Islamic State carried out an attack on the 21st of Dhul-Qa’dah, stabbing and killing one of the policemen of the taghut, Erdogan, in front of their police station. In Spain, a group of Islamic State soldiers conducted two operations in two separate cities on the 25th of Dhul-Qa’dah, with the main massacre dealing a blow to the tourism sector – which makes up the largest part of Spain’s economy – as the mujahidin killed 16 and wounded more than 130 others from among the Jews and Crusaders, giving them a new lesson in politics that teaches them the necessity of preparing themselves to pay a heavy human and economic price for their war against the Islamic State before calculating the gains that they expect to make in their war. In Russia, a lone knight of the Islamic State  stabbed and wounded 7 people on the 27th of Dhul-Qa’dah, with his brave deed demonstrating that one doesn’t need much in terms of weapons and planning in order to march forth and attack the kuffar. And in Belgium, a soldier of the Islamic State  attacked a group of Belgian soldiers on the 3rd of Dhul-Hijjah, stabbing them until he was killed. These are just some of the operations in which the soldiers of the Islamic State have attacked the Crusaders, Jews, and murtaddin in their own homelands, killing and wounding large numbers of them, particularly in recent weeks. And in following these events, one can see that the European Crusader states have not ceased to pay the heavy burden brought about by such blessed operations even after several months, for their militaries continue to be deployed on their streets, their security measures remain heightened, their profit from trade and tourism continues to decline, and a state of terror continues to exist, the most obvious signs of which are not the widespread patrols in their public squares, nor the cement barriers on their streets. With Allah’s permission, the attacks in Spain and in other kafir states will continue as long as they are at war with the Islamic State, and with Allah’s permission, they will not be able to stop them regardless of what measures and precautions they take, and they know this very well. And what is anticipated is that the soldiers of the Islamic State will escalate these attacks to a greater level in the coming period. So let the Crusader governments prepare themselves for an increase of loss in war, and for an increase in what they hemorrhage of wealth and of things that are precious to them, for tomorrow is close at hand. And all praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the creation.