Spare time is a blessing which most people treat inequitably. They are those whom Allah sufficed with the provisions of living as they set out in its pursuit, but they neither benefited nor took advantage of it. Rather, they wasted it on play and amusement until death came to them while they were negligent and heedless of what Allah excepted of them – basking in the graces which they will be asked about. Allah g said, “Then you will surely be asked that Day about the blessings [you enjoyed]” (At-Takathur 8). Yes indeed, they will be asked, because Allah g did not create the creation that they may bask in temporary bliss. Rather, He created them in order to worship Him, while He is not in need of them nor their worship. He – by His grace and mercy – has prepared for the obedient ones from amongst them that which no eye has seen, nor any ear heard, nor any human mind conceived, compensating them therein with constant bliss due to them having spent their time in His obedience, and what a blessed compensation, the abode of Jannah. As for he who diverges from the Hereafter towards his fleeting Dunya and his temporary living, then his situation after death is as Allah g said, “‘My Lord, send me back. That I might do righteousness in that which I left behind’” (Al- Muminun 99-100). So will man then not take heed and busy himself with Allah’s obedience and with seeking His pleasure while his soul is still within him? The Messenger of Allah g said, “O Allah there is no life except the life of the Hereafter. Forgive the Ansar and the Muhajirin” (Reported by al-Bukhari and Muslim). Contemplate on his g statement, and his negation that the enjoyments of this Dunya be a real sense of living worthy of the effort of those pursuing it, because in reality the real life is that of the Hereafter in Allah’s Jannah. O, I Wish I Had Sent Ahead [Some Good] for My Life Indeed, many people have lost the balance between the actions of the Dunya and the actions of the Hereafter – not reconciling between them. Thus, the extent of most of their concerns is accumulating wealth and wasting it on permissible things, and so you see them in affluence and with what suffices for living but yet they are poor when it comes to those deeds that lead to success in Allah’s Jannah and to His pleasure. And thus Allah blessed them with the gift of spare time and yet they utilized it to occupy themselves with the Dunya, though they weren’t even in need of it. In truth, that is the one who is heedless, as was reported by Ibn ‘Abbas h when he said, “The Prophet g said, ‘There are two blessings which most people are heedless of: Heath and spare time’” (Reported by al-Bukhari). O you who has been blessed with wealth and spare time, you who are distracted by your Dunya, you are indeed amongst those deprived, for you did not give true value to the time that has passed of your life, contrary to what is known of the people of high ambition, those who don’t find any spare time due to their performance of deeds and their jihad, whereas you who has been blessed with spare time are headed towards a grave matter that may have been obscured from you and which you were heedless of, a moment in which you will say, “‘O, I wish I had sent ahead [some good] for my life’” (Al-Fajr 24). Imam at-Tabari r said, “Allah g says, while informing of the sorrow of the son of Adam on the Day of Judgment, and his regret over his negligence in performing righteous deeds in the Dunya which would have inherited him an eternal stay in bliss that has no end, O I wish I had sent ahead for my life in the world righteous deeds for myself in this life – after which there is no death – deeds that would have saved me from the anger of Allah and granted me His pleasure” (Jami’ al-Bayan). Indeed, there is he whom Allah has bestowed His blessings upon and thus sufficed with regards to the provisions of living, but he was careless, lost in heedlessness regarding the orders of his Lord, not busying his spare time in understanding his religion and what Allah demands of him. Rather, he was occupied with the haram, or excessiveness in that which is permissible. O confused and heedless one, prepare many answers for the many questions that are coming, for by Allah you were not created in play nor left without aim, and you shall be asked about your spare time and how you spent it. With Every Day That Passes You, a Piece of You Departs From them is he who grows old and whose back becomes crooked while he possesses what would assist him in his worldly affairs of wealth and children, and Allah surely blessed him with such great blessings of spare time, but he did not know how take advantage of it. As for he whose situation is as such, reflect extensively about those years which you have spent while not attaining your share of the Hereafter. Reflect on how close you are to meeting your Lord. Is now not the time for you to incite your children and descendants to sacrifice for the religion of Allah and support it? Is now not the time for you to dedicate your time to Allah and to supplicating for yourself, the oppressed Muslims, and the mujahid slaves of Allah? Is now not the time to devote yourself to Allah and draw closer to Him through the various methods of drawing oneself close. There are many people who reach a very old age, and then you find them living with the absent-minded mentality of the youth, those who don’t think about death, the hour of questioning and account, and by Allah, that is in reality nothing but high expectations of living a long life and it is the essence of destruction. So where are you in relation to the statement of Allah g, “And there has come the intoxication of death with the truth; that is what you were trying to avoid” (Qaf 19)? Imam al-Baghawi said, “‘And there has come the intoxication of death’: pains and agonies that envelope mankind and overcome his mind, ‘with the truth’: meaning the reality of death. And it was said, ‘with the truth’: meaning the matter of the Hereafter, such that mankind sees it clearly with his own eyes. And it was said: with what the affair of mankind returns to of either bliss or misery. And it is said to the one whom the intoxication of death has come to: ‘that is what you were trying to avoid’: incline away from, and al-Hasan al Basri said: to flee from, and Ibn ‘Abbas said: [that is what you] hate” (Ma’alim at-Tanzil fi Tafsir al-Quran). Therefore, take advantage of your spare time before you reach you grave, and take advantage of your mornings for perhaps you might not reach the night. It was reported from al-Hasan al-Basri that he said, “O son of Adam, indeed you are but days, and with every day that passes there departs a piece of you” (Az-Zuhd li Ahmad Ibn Hanbal). So follow the example of those grey-haired men who offered their limbs in Allah’s cause and competed with the youth on Jannah not on the Dunya. Take Advantage of the Hours of Your Spare Time There is a type of individual from amongst the righteous whom Allah g has sufficed with regards to his provisions of living, and thus his provisions were under the shadow of his spear. He uses it to ruin the lives of the disbelievers and give victory to the religion of the Lord of the creation. And from those prosperous ones also is he who suffices in his ribat with performing his guard shift for a few hours and then returns to his lengthy spare time. Such times are a blessing for the mujahid that he may not be aware of, for if he utilized them with the remembrance of Allah, the recitation of the Quran, supplication, or performing voluntary deeds, or took an hour to remind his brothers and they incited one another, then in this there would be an enormous benefit, and a means of steadfastness in the face of the enemy when one meets them, and an means of elevating one’s status, and an increase in one’s good deeds. O mujahid, know that your spare time is a blessing from Allah, so take advantage of it so that you do not become of those cheated, and make it a thing of mention for you with Allah g, for Allah has prepared for the mujahidin in Jannah 100 levels, and thus the level of the mujahid who remembers Allah g, offers voluntary prayers, recites the Quran, and strives in his guard duty and in performing ribat and fighting is not like the level of the mujahid murabit who does not remember Allah except a little, performing his guard shift and then returning to his lengthy spare time. And thus it is upon the truthful mujahidin and murabitin to strive in their spare time to achieve the highest levels, and to know that what is between two levels in Jannah is the likes of the heaven and the earth, and that the bliss of the highest stations are superior and more complete than the bliss of those other than them. So let not the murabit refrain from increasing in righteous deeds, accompanied with the greatest of deeds which the Prophet g informed of: “Ribat for a day and night is better than fasting a month and standing therein in prayer, and if he dies, his deeds which he used to do continue, he is granted his provision, and he is safeguarded from the two trials” (Reported by Muslim). So what an enormous grace it is for the murabit that is killed and thus rewarded for the deeds that he used to busy himself in his spare time! Therefore, it is upon you to recite the Quran, stand the night in prayer, and perform other than that from the various forms of worship, and to be attentive to seeking knowledge and understanding the religion, and to memorize the book of Allah e, for the spare time which you utilize between your guard shifts is something envied by many from amongst the righteous.