All praise is due to Allah, who loves for His slaves to call on Him saying, “And those who say, “Our Lord, grant us from among our wives and offspring comfort to our eyes and make us imams for the righteous” (Al-Furqan 74). May Allah’s blessings and peace be upon His Messenger, the Imam of the righteous – whom Allah made both an imam for the people that rules them with what Allah has revealed, and an imam for the people to follow with respect to their religion, and whose rightly-guided successors Allah then placed upon his methodology and path – and may His blessings and peace be upon his family, his companions, and those who follow them in goodness until the Day of Judgment. As for what follows: Imam Ahmad and al-Hakim, along with Ibn Hibban in his sahih, reported the hadith of Abu Umamah h, that Allah’s Messenger g said, “You will certainly undo the bonds of Islam one by one. Every time a bond is undone, the people will cling to the one that follows. The first to be undone will be hukm (ruling) and the last of them will be the prayer.” So the greater shar’i imamah is from among the bonds of Islam, and undoing the affair of ruling with what Allah has revealed is a deficiency that affects the Muslims in both their religious and worldly affairs, for how many branches of Islam and iman cannot be achieved except through this particular bond of Islam! And the task of ruling with what Allah has revealed can only be undertaken by the ruler and the scholars of the Shari’ah, who aid him and advise him. Allah g said, “Indeed, We sent down the Torah, in which was guidance and light. The prophets who submitted [to Allah] judged by it for the Jews, as did the rabbis and scholars by that with which they were entrusted of the Scripture of Allah, and they were witnesses thereto” (Al-Maidah 44). So Allah g clarified that it was the prophets whom He commissioned with the task of ruling with what He revealed, and they were the ones who would lead Bani Israil, as the Prophet g said, “The prophets would lead Bani Israil, and every time a prophet passed away, another prophet would succeed him. And indeed, there is no prophet after me. There will be khulafa and they will be many.” They (i.e. the Sahabah) said, “What do you order us to do?” He said “Fulfill your bay’ah to the [one given bay’ah] first, and give them their right, for indeed Allah will ask them about that which He has given them guardianship over” (Reported by Muslim). So the khulafa take the role of the prophets in ruling the people with what Allah has revealed, and the pious scholars are their helpers in that regard. The Rightly-Guided Khilafah Inherits the Prophetic Methodology Indeed, from the most important of responsibilities of the Khilafah in this era is to renew the religion and establish it upon the prophetic methodology, as promised by our prophet g in his statement, “Prophethood will remain among you for as long as Allah wills for it to remain. Then, He will lift it when He wills to lift it. Then, there will be khilafah upon the prophetic methodology, and it will remain for as long as Allah wills for it to remain. Then, He will lift it when He wills to lift it. Then, there will be biting kingship, and it will remain for as long as Allah wills for it to remain. Then, He will lift it when He wills to lift it. Then, there will be oppressive kingship, and it will remain for as long as Allah wills for it to remain. Then, He will lift it when He wills to lift it. Then, there will be khilafah upon the prophetic methodology” (Reported by Ahmad). So the Khilafah that is sought is that which is upon the prophetic methodology, and the Khilafah upon the prophetic methodology is that which achieves the description of rushd (right guidance), which is the description given to the Khilafah of the leading group of the companions of Allah’s Messenger g. And a khilafah can only be described with rushd if – by Allah’s permission – the khalifah follows the Book of Allah and the guidance of our prophet, Muhammad g, in all affairs and in all circumstances. Rushd has various meanings in the Book of Allah g, and among its greatest meanings is the grace and guidance of Allah g for those of His slaves whom He loves: “And know that among you is the Messenger of Allah. If he were to obey you in much of the matter, you would be in difficulty, but Allah has endeared to you the faith and has made it pleasing in your hearts and has made hateful to you disbelief, defiance and disobedience. Those are the [rightly] guided” (Al-Hujurat 7). So adhering to the pillars, attributes, and branches of iman, loving them and clinging to them, and distancing oneself from everything that opposes them – including kufr, immorality, and sin – is all from rushd. And the greatest caller to rushd is the Book of our Lord c, just as He g informed us through the statement of the jinn, “‘Indeed, we have heard an amazing Qur’an. It guides to rushd’” (Al-Jinn 1-2). He g also informed us that He gave rushd to His prophet and Khalil, Ibrahim, so he called the people to the tawhid of Allah, disputed with them and clarified to them their misguidance, and was patient in the face of their harm, their threats, and even their attempts to kill him by burning him alive. He sought refuge with Allah, and Allah saved him from the fire, making it cool and pleasant for him. Ibrahim declared his baraah (disavowal) of his father and his people due to their persistence upon kufr, and left them, making hijrah away from them: “And he said, ‘Indeed, I will go to [where I am ordered by] my Lord; He will guide me’” (As-Saffat 99). So the rightly-guided khilafah establishes all the laws of the religion, revives the sunan, kills the heresies, and wages jihad against the kuffar and the obstinate. It does not follow the whims of men. Rather, it responds to the commands of Allah, following that which He loves and avoiding that which He hates. Allah g said, “So let them respond to Me [by obedience] and believe in Me that they may be [rightly] guided” (Al-Baqarah 186). The Greater Imamah Strives to Manifest the Religion of Islam In addition to the establishment of the religion of Allah, the governing of the affairs of the Dunya in accordance with the religion, the protection of the religion, and the defense of the land of Islam, the Muslims, their sanctities, and their wealth all being from most important matters which the Khalifah of the Muslims undertakes, he is also tasked with striving to spread the authority of the religion across all of Allah’s earth. Allah g wishes for the Muslims to work to make the religion of Islam dominant and triumphant over all other religions, so that the word of Allah is supreme and the word of those who disbelieve is lowest. Allah wishes for His religion to ascend above all other religions in a manifest way. He g said, “It is He who has sent His Messenger with guidance and the religion of truth to manifest it over all religion, although they who associate others with Allah dislike it” (At-Tawbah 33). Allah’s making the religion of Islam manifest includes making it manifest over all other religions through proofs and evidences. So Allah made it clear that His religion is the truth, and that everything aside from it is false and will perish. It also includes manifesting it by giving it victory over the followers of all other religions, until their authority ceases to exist and their structure collapses. Thus, with the religion of Islam and its first mujahid followers, Allah eliminated the two largest states – the Persian and Roman states – that were present when the light of prophethood glowed, let alone the various other kingdoms of the kuffar. In other words, the religion of Allah became manifest and triumphant over the kuffar when a state was established for the Muslims whose foundations were laid down and fixed firmly by Allah’s Messenger g and then the rightly-guided khulafa after him. And likewise, the Khalifah of the Muslims and his soldiers undertake this matter today, with the support of Allah g, so the achievement of victory and honor for the Muslims cannot be imagined without the establishment of the Islamic State, which has revived the rightly-guided Khilafah. The Earth Belongs to Allah and He Causes His Righteous Slaves to Inherit It From among the responsibilities of the one who has been given authority over the affairs of the Muslims (the Khalifah, may Allah honor him) is to spread the authority of the Islamic State across the entire land, for the land is Allah’s land, and a kafir has no right to it. Allah g said, “And We have already written in the book [of Psalms] after the [previous] mention that the land is inherited by My righteous servants” (Al-Anbiya 105). The mufassirin – including Ibn ‘Abbas k – explained that “the land” means Jannah. Ibn ‘Abbas also said, “He g informed in the Tawrah, the Zabur, and [had] in His knowledge prior to creating the heavens and the earth that He would cause the Ummah of Muhammad g to inherit the land, and would enter them into Jannah, and they are the righteous.” These are two correct statements which do not contradict one another, and the inheritance of the land does not occur except through jihad for the cause of Allah, which is the peak of the hump of Islam, for the kuffar do not leave their kufr and their diverting the people away from the religion of Islam except due to fighting, which the allies of Ar-Rahman undertake against the allies of the Shaytan. Allah g said, “And fight them until there is no fitnah and [until] the religion, all of it, is for Allah” (Al-Anfal 39). He g also said, “And what is [the matter] with you that you fight not for the cause of Allah and [for] the oppressed among men, women, and children who say, ‘Our Lord, take us out of this city of oppressive people and appoint for us from Yourself a protector and appoint for us from Yourself a helper?’ Those who believe fight in the cause of Allah, and those who disbelieve fight in the cause of Taghut. So fight against the allies of Satan. Indeed, the plot of Satan has ever been weak” (An-Nisa 75-76). So if the Islamic State and its soldiers do not undertake the obligation of fighting for the cause of Allah and rescuing the weak among the believers from the claws of kufr and its people, then who would?! Indeed, it is a weighty matter that the Khilafah undertakes – its leaders and soldiers alike – and indeed we are certain that Allah will soon grant it victory, for Allah c has sworn to support those who support His religion: “And Allah will surely support those who support Him. Indeed, Allah is truly Strong and and Mighty” (Al-Hajj 40). Allah emphasized His promise of support by swearing an oath using multiple Arabic linguistic mechanisms, and placed emphasis on two of His great names – and all of His names are great – “Qawiyy” (Strong) and “‘Aziz” (Mighty). So His strength is not equaled by any other strength, for He is the Creator of the creation, and He is the one who gave them what He willed of the means of strength, and He is the Strong while His creation are the weak, and He is the Self-Sufficient while His creation are the ones in need of Him, and He is the Mighty who cannot be overcome, the one who made honor for the believers among His slaves, and the one who promised to suffice them and grant them victory. He g said, “Is not Allah sufficient for His slaves?” (Az-Zumar 36), with the word “slave” taking the plural form of “slaves” in the recitations of Hamzah, Kisai, Khalaf (from among the ten recitations), and Abu Ja’far. The Evidence for the Obligation of Establishing the Greater Imamah Firstly: The Evidence from the Quran Allah g said, “O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you” (An-Nisa 59). At-Tabari reported that Abu Hurayrah h said, “‘Ulul-Amr (those in authority)’ are the leaders.” At-Tabari then said, “The most correct of statements in that regard is the statement of those who said, ‘They are the leaders concerning that which entails obedience to Allah and which contains benefit for the Muslims.’” Ibn Kathir said, “What is apparent – and Allah knows best – is that the ayah is general in referring to everyone with authority, including the leaders and the scholars.” The evidence in this ayah is that Allah g made it obligatory upon the Muslims to obey those in authority among them – and they are the leaders – and the command to obey them is evidence that it is obligatory to appoint a leader, because Allah g does not command us to obey one who does not exist and whose presence the people weep for. So the command to obey him necessitates the command to bring him about, and as such, it indicates that appointing an imam for the Muslims is obligatory on them. Also from among the evidences is the statement of Allah g addressed to the Messenger g, “So judge between them by what Allah has revealed and do not follow their inclinations away from what has come to you of the truth” (Al-Maidah 48), as well as His g statement in the ayah that follows it, “And judge, [O Muhammad], between them by what Allah has revealed and do not follow their inclinations and beware of them, lest they tempt you away from some of what Allah has revealed to you” (Al-Maidah 49). This command is from Allah g to His Messenger g, to judge between the Muslims by what Allah has revealed – meaning His Shari’ah – and an address to the Messenger g is an address to his ummah as long as there is no evidence that it is specific to him, as is the case here. As such, this is an address to all the Muslims to establish the matter of ruling by what Allah has revealed until the Day of Judgment, and establishing rule and authority cannot be done except by establishing imamah, because that is from the jobs of imamah and it cannot be established in full except by way of imamah. Therefore, all of the ayat commanding us to rule by what Allah has revealed are evidence of the obligation of appointing an imam who would undertake that task. Also from among the evidences is the statement of Allah f, “We have already sent Our messengers with clear evidences and sent down with them the Scripture and the balance that the people may maintain [their affairs] in justice. And We sent down iron, wherein is great military might and benefits for the people, and so that Allah may make evident those who support Him and His messengers unseen. Indeed, Allah is Powerful and Exalted in Might” (Al-Hadid 25). The task of the messengers p is to establish justice among the people in accordance with what has been revealed in the Book, and to support that with strength, and this cannot be achieved by the followers of the messengers except by appointing an imam who establishes justice among them and organizes their armies, which bring victory to Allah’s religion. Imam Ibn Taymiyyah r said, “And for this reason, the Prophet g ordered his ummah to appoint leaders over themselves and ordered the leaders to render trusts to whom they are due, and when they judge between the people that they judge with justice. And he commanded them to obey their leaders in that which entails obedience to Allah g” (Majmu’ al-Fatawa). Also from the evidences of the Quran are the ayat of hudud and qisas (retribution), and of collecting the zakah, and other such rulings which, in origin, are the job of the imam and his deputies. So all the ayat that were revealed with the legislation of rulings connected to imamah and its affairs indicate that establishing the shar’i imamah and establishing the Islamic State are from among the essentials and necessities of the Islamic Shari’ah. Secondly: The Evidences from the Sunnah a. The Evidences in the Sunnah from the Statements of the Prophet g: Many ahadith have come from the Prophet g that indicate the obligation of appointing an imam, including the following: 1. ‘Abdullah Ibn ‘Umar k narrated that Allah’s Messenger g said, “Whoever removes his hand from obedience will meet Allah on the Day of Judgment and will have no argument, and whoever dies with having bay’ah, dies a death of Jahiliyyah” (Sahih Muslim), meaning obedience to the imam and bay’ah to him. And this is clear in indicating the obligation of appointing an imam and listening to and obeying him, because if bay’ah is an obligation on the Muslim and bay’ah is only for the imam, then appointing an imam is obligatory, and it is likewise obligatory to persist in his obedience and to not revolt against him or remove one’s hand from his obedience. 2. The famous hadith in the sunan from ‘Irbad Ibn Sariyah, who narrated that the Prophet g said, “Indeed, those of you who live long will see much differing, so adhere to my sunnah and the sunnah of the rightly-guided khulafa. Hold onto it and bite it with your wisdom teeth, and beware of newly introduced matters, for indeed, every heresy is misguidance” (Reported by Abu Dawud and at-Tirmidhi). It has been reported in mutawatir form that the Sahabah j gave bay’ah to Abu Bakr h as the Khalifah after the Prophet g passed on to arrafiq al-a’la (the highest companionship). Then, Abu Bakr appointed ‘Umar k to succeed him. Then, ‘Umar placed the matter of his successor to be decided by and chosen from among six people who were the best of the Sahabah and they chose from among themselves ‘Uthman – may Allah be pleased with them all. Then, following his shahadah, they gave bay’ah to ‘Ali h as the Khalifah. This was their sunnah j concerning establishing the Khilafah and not being negligent of doing so. So it became obligatory to follow their example in that regard, as ordered by the Prophet g And likewise is the case with the ahadith indicating the obligation of obeying the rulers concerning that which does not entail sin, as well as the ahadith of bay’ah and the order to fulfill one’s bay’ah to the first imam to whom bay’ah is given, and the prohibition of revolting against the imams of the Muslims, and the incitement to strike the neck of the one who comes forth to dispute the authority of the true imam. All of these ahadith necessitate the presence of the Muslim imam, and therefore indicate the obligation of appointing him. Rather, there is no goodness in the life of the Muslims except when they have a shar’i imam. b. The Evidences in the Sunnah from the actions of the Prophet g: Ever since Allah sent His Prophet g and he was believed in by those whom Allah knew to have within them much good, his noble companions carried out his orders and obeyed him, and not just in matters of worship. Rather, he was their reference when it came to organizing the affairs of da’wah, dealing with the kuffar, and dealing with any new issues that came up, such as the hijrah to Habashah and then to Madinah. And Makkah not being a land of tamkin (consolidation) did not mean that the Muslims should live without any leadership that manages that which it can of their affairs, for the Prophet g was for the Muslims an imam, a teacher, a father, and a merciful companion. When Allah g prepared for His Prophet g those who would support his religion from among the people of Madinah and who would defend him as they defend their wives and children, and they gave bay’ah to him pledging to listen and obey both in times of delight and dislike, and had force of strength in their land, he made hijrah to them, and the building of the land of Islam was completed by the Prophet Imam g and his righteous companions. In addition to the evidences from the Book and the Sunnah, the consensus of the Sahabah j on appointing an imam, the concern they demonstrated for that, the priority they gave it over the obligation of burying the Prophet g following his death, and their persistence on this ijma’ by appointing one imam after another all act as evidence of this obligation on the Muslims. And the shar’i obligation of imamah is from among the issues most widely agreed upon by the scholars of Ahlus-Sunnah through the ages, and none opposed this except the people of heresy and deviation, and their opposition is not given any consideration. And all praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the creation.