As the soldiers of the Khilafah continue waging war on the forces of kufr, we take a glimpse at a number of recent operations conducted by the mujahidin of the Islamic State that have succeeded in expanding the territory of the Khilafah, or terrorizing, massacring, and humiliating the enemies of Allah. These operations are merely a selection of the numerous operations that the Islamic State has conducted on various fronts across many regions over the course of the last few weeks. Khurasan Wilayah On the 1st of Dhul-Qa’dah, the soldiers of the Khilafah succeeded in repelling a joint assault carried out by the murtadd Afghan army and the Crusader coalition on the village of Mariz in Deh Bala located in Nangarhar, where clashes ensued involving various weapons, resulting in four members of the attacking forces being killed – among them Crusaders – and a number of others being wounded, with the kuffar being forced to retreat. On the 2nd of Dhul-Qa’dah, the soldiers of the Khilafah assaulted a convoy consisting of Crusaders and murtadd Afghan forces in the area of Deh Bala in Nangarhar. Clashes ensued involving various weapons, during which several Crusaders and murtaddin were killed and several Humvees were destroyed, while those who survived fled from the convoy in defeat. The assault likewise resulted in one of the mujahidin attaining shahadah – we consider him so and Allah is his judge. On the 8th of Dhul-Qa’dah, as part of the open war declared against the Rafidi mushrikin everywhere, the inghimasiyyin Abu Julaybib al-Khurasani and Abu- Talhah al-Balkhi  set out with their explosive vests, assault rifles, and hand grenades towards the Rafidi Iraqi government embassy in the diplomatic quarter in the city of Kabul, where 7 of its guards and more than 20 others inside were killed. On the 10th of Dhul-Qa’dah, the inghimasiyyin ‘Umayr ‘Asim and Tayyib al-Khurasani  set out with their explosive vests, assault rifles, and hand grenades, and assaulted the Rafidi mushrikin in the Jawwadiyyah temple in the area of Bakrabad in the district of Herat, killing approximately 50 mushrikin and wounding more than 80 others. On the 13th of Dhul-Qa’dah, the soldiers of the Khilafah in the area of ‘Awr succeeded in repelling an assault carried out by the murtadd Taliban Movement on their positions, wherein a group of the murtaddin fell into an ambush set up by the mujahidin in the village of Balawi, resulting in three of them being killed. Likewise – several days prior to that – the soldiers of the Khilafah succeeded in detonating an explosive device on one of their patrols in the village of Shurah Kun, resulting in several murtaddin being killed. The following day, confrontations erupted in the same village, resulting in four fighters from among the murtaddin being killed and three others being wounded. On the 14th of Dhul-Qa’dah, the soldiers of the Khilafah succeeded in repelling an attempt by the murtadd Afghan army to advance on the area of Makranah in Mamand located in Nangarhar. Fierce clashes ensued involving various weapons, resulting in the destruction of a BMP and a truck belonging to the murtadd Afghan forces. Meanwhile, a member of the murtadd Taliban Movement was assassinated in the area of Sabru in the administrative district of Jabarhar in Afghanistan. On the 16th of Dhul-Qa’dah, an Islamic State covert unit succeeded in assassinating a murtadd Pakistani intelligence official in the city of Multan in western Pakistan. On the 20th of Dhul-Qa’dah, the istishhadi Abu Yahya al-Baluchi  set out towards a convoy belonging to the murtadd Pakistani army in the city of Quetta, where he succeeded in detonating his explosives-laden vehicle within their midst, killing 17 murtaddin and wounding 35 others. Likewise, two members of the murtadd Taliban Movement were killed during clashes with the soldiers of the Khilafah in the area of Qush Tapa in Jawzjan in northeastern Afghanistan. Meanwhile, an Islamic State covert unit succeeded in assassinating a murtadd Afghan army officer along with one of his aides using a firearm in the city of Jalalabad in eastern Afghanistan. On the 24th of Dhul-Qa’dah, the soldiers of the Khilafah launched an assault, which lasted several days, on a number of Rafidi villages in the administrative district of Sayad in northern Afghanistan, where fierce confrontations ensued with the murtadd Afghan army as they attempted to regain control over the village of Mirza Awlank, which the mujahidin had previously captured, killing therein 54 from among the Rafidah, in addition to several killed and wounded from among the murtadd Afghan army, along with the destruction of a tank. Likewise, four members of the murtadd Afghan police were killed after the mujahidin carried out an assault in the area of Bulan Ghuri in the same district. On the 25th of Dhul-Qa’dah, the soldiers of the Khilafah in the area of Mamand in the region of Ashin in Nangarhar repelled a wide scale Crusader assault in coordination with the murtadd Afghan special forces, whereby the Crusaders were deceived by their equipment and weapons and thought that they would be victorious. Their assault was assisted by B-52 and A-10 warplanes, fighter jets, helicopters, and drones, which bombed in all directions. They were confronted by the mujahidin, who were armed with various weapons, and fierce clashes ensued and continued for approximately 12 hours, with the Crusaders and their proxies unable make any advances. The confrontations resulted in the killing of 30 soldiers from among the attacking forces, including at least 12 Crusaders. East Asia On the 2nd of Dhul-Qa’dah, the soldiers of the Khilafah succeeded in killing 16 Crusader Filipino soldiers after detonating an explosive device and clashing with them in the Baling and Laylud Madaya neighborhoods in the city of Marawi. On the 4th of Dhul-Qa’dah, the soldiers of the Khilafah succeeded in killing 10 Crusader Filipino soldiers and in destroying an armored vehicle during clashes in the Baylut neighborhood in the city of Marawi. On the 5th of Dhul-Qa’dah, the soldiers of the Khilafah succeeded in killing at least 19 Crusader Filipino soldiers after conducting an ambush in the Baylut neighborhood in the city of Marawi. On the 8th of Dhul-Qa’dah, three Crusader Filipino soldiers were killed and four others were wounded when mines were detonated in the Marinut neighborhood in the city of Marawi. On the 15th of Dhul-Qa’dah, 11 members of the murtadd Moro Liberation Front were killed and 11 others wounded after multiple explosive devices were detonated in the area of Datu Salibu and in the village of Andavit in the region of Maguindanao in the southern Philippines. On the 20th of Dhul-Qa’dah, the soldiers of the Khilafah engaged in fierce clashes with the murtadd Moro Liberation Front in the region of Maguindanao, resulting in at least 19 murtaddin being killed. In the city of Marawi, the soldiers of the Khilafah succeeded in destroying 6 Crusader war vessels belonging to the Filipino Army during confrontations in the Raya Madaya neighborhood. Likewise, one of their vehicles was destroyed, 5 soldiers were killed, and a number of others were wounded after being targeted with a rocket projectile in the Baylut neighborhood. Meanwhile, four Filipino soldiers were killed after being sniped on ‘Ala Street. On the 24th of Dhul-Qa’dah, the soldiers of the Khilafah succeeded in destroying a Crusader Filipino army tank after targeting it with a rocket projectile on ‘Ala Street in the city of Marawi. On the 26th of Dhul-Qa’dah, the soldiers of the Khilafah engaged in fierce confrontations involving various weapons with the Crusader Filipino army on ‘Ala Street in the city of Marawi, resulting in 11 soldiers being killed. Meanwhile, 7 members of the murtadd Moro Liberation Front were killed during clashes in the village of Nimao in the region of Maguindanao in the southern Philippines. Tunisia On the 6th of Dhul-Qa’dah, the soldiers of the Khilafah succeeded in planting an explosive device on a road used by the murtaddin at Mount Mughilah in western Tunisia. They then detonated it on an armored vehicle transporting several murtadd Tunisian soldiers, resulting in the destruction of the vehicle and the killing and wounding of 5 murtaddin inside. On the 29th of Dhul-Qa’dah, an armored vehicle that was transporting murtadd Tunisian soldiers was destroyed after an explosive device was detonated at Mount Mughilah in the region of Qasrayn. Bayda Wilayah On the 29th of Dhul-Qa’dah, the soldiers of the Khilafah succeeded in repelling a campaign by the Houthi mushrikin on the area of Liqah in Qayfah, where clashes involving various weapons continued throughout the day, resulting in the killing and wounding of several murtaddin, including the leader of the campaign, the Rafidi murtadd Abu Murtada al-Mahturi, with the mujahidin also taking a variety of weapons and ammunition as ghanimah. Somalia On the 13th of Dhul-Qa’dah, the soldiers of the Khilafah succeeded in killing a member of the murtadd Somali intelligence near the Tawfiq junction in the Yaqshid neighborhood in the city of Mogadishu. Sinai Wilayah On the 14th of Dhul-Qa’dah, the soldiers of the Khilafah succeeded in destroying two armored vehicles transporting members of the murtadd Misri police on Bahr Street in the city of ‘Arish. Meanwhile, 23 various vehicles belonging to the murtadd Misri army were disabled by the soldiers of the Khilafah since the beginning of their campaign at the start of the month. Furat Wilayah On the 15th of Dhul-Qa’dah, the soldiers of the Khilafah launched an assault on Rafidi army barracks in the area of Jamunah near Tanaf from three axes. The assault began with an istishhadi operation carried out by Abu Hasan al-‘Iraqi , which was followed by the storming of the murtaddin’s barracks, with the mujahidin clashing with them using various weapons. The battle resulted in 68 murtaddin being killed, the capture of a soldier, the destruction of 7 vehicles, the disabling of a tank, and the burning of 6 barracks. Likewise, Allah blessed His slaves with the taking of three 4-wheel drive vehicles mounted with machine guns, a multiple rocket launcher, and a variety of weapons and ammunition as ghanimah. Hims Wilayah On the 17th of Dhul Qa’dah, the soldiers of the Khilafah launched a wide scale assault from several axes on Nusayri positions in the eastern countryside of Hims. The first axis was in the area of the desert, where the istishhadi Abu Ruqayyah al-‘Iraqi  targeted a Nusayri army operations command base in the areas of Hamimah and T3. The second axis targeted positions of the murtaddin located approximately 20 kilometers west of the area of Hamimah. Meanwhile, the third axis was in the area of Wa’r. The attack resulted in the killing of 80 murtaddin and the destruction and burning of 5 tanks, two BMPs, 5 personnel carriers, two 4-wheel drive vehicles mounted with machine guns, and 65 tents, with the mujahidin taking a variety of weapons and ammunition as ghanimah. Russia On the 26th of Dhul-Qa’dah, a soldier of the Khilafah carried out a knife attack in the city of Surgut in Russia. Seven people were wounded before he attained shahadah at the hands of local police – we consider him as such, and Allah is his judge. Spain On the 25th of Dhul-Qa’dah, two covert units comprised of several mujahidin set out in a coordinated manner and targeted the gatherings of the Crusaders in Spain. The first unit of mujahidin targeted a gathering of the Crusaders using a van on Las Ramblas Street in Barcelona. They also ran over two police officers at a police checkpoint, and then stormed a bar with light weapons near the Las Ramblas square, massacring the Crusaders who were present. Meanwhile, the second unit set out to run over several Crusaders using a truck in the coastal town of Cambrils. The blessed raid resulted in the killing and wounding of at least 146 citizens of the Crusader coalition. Jazirah Wilayah On the 28th of Dhul Qa’dah, the soldiers of the Khilafah repelled a wide scale assault on their positions on the eastern, southern, and western axes of Tal’afar launched by the Rafidi army and Rafidi Mobilization forces and supported by airstrikes carried out by American warplanes and Apache helicopters. The battle erupted and fierce clashes ensued involving three istishhadi operations, one of which was a two-man operation carried out by Abu Maryam al-‘Iraqi and Abu Hamzah al-‘Iraqi , who targeted a gathering of murtaddin in the village of Abtishah east of Tal’afar. Likewise, the istishhadiyyin Abu Mus’ab at-Turki and Abu Dhil-Qarnayn at-Turki  detonated their explosives-laden vehicles on the gatherings of the murtaddin in the village of Jabbarah west of Tal’afar. The three operations resulted in several murtaddin being killed and wounded. Meanwhile, the mujahidin managed to lure the murtaddin into a minefield, and into houses previously rigged with explosives, detonating them on the murtaddin and causing enormous losses within their ranks. They succeeded in killing approximately 114 of them, and in destroying two Abrams tanks, 10 Humvees, and four Cougar vehicles, in addition to 24 various other military vehicles. On the 29th of Dhul-Qa’dah, the soldiers of the Khilafah – for the second consecutive day – repelled a Crusader and Rafidi campaign against the city of Tal’afar, whose western and eastern axes witnessed fierce fighting, during the course of which Abu Muhammad al-‘Iraqi and Abu Mus’ab at-Turki  carried out istishhadi operations striking Rafidi army and Rafidi Mobilization gatherings in the village of Tall as-Samn, killing and wounding 39 murtaddin, and destroying 6 Humvees, three Cougar vehicles, and three other military vehicles. Likewise, 6 Humvees were destroyed, along with a Cougar vehicle, a minesweeper vehicle, and a bulldozer when a minefield was detonated near the villages of Tarmah and Lawand west and southwest of Tal’afar. Meanwhile, dozens of murtaddin were killed and wounded and at least 20 of their military vehicles were destroyed after Crusader American airstrikes struck a convoy of theirs as they retreated from the village of Karkari southwest of Tal’afar. Dimashq Wilayah On the 28th of Dhul-Qa’dah, the soldiers of the Khilafah repelled an assault on a number of axes launched by the Crusader Lebanese army and the Rafidi Hizb al-Lat on their positions in West Qalamun, whereby they attacked Jarud (‘Arsal and Qa’) and the mountains of Zamrani, Mashqatah, Mira, and Faykhah, as well as the valleys of Zuwaytinah and Harutah. Fierce clashes ensued, during which an istishhadi operation was carried out by Abu Dujanah al-Lubnani , who pursued a group of the army as they fled towards the valley of Khashan, where he detonated his explosives-laden vehicle in their midst. The confrontations resulted in the killing and wounding of approximately 100 members of the Lebanese Army and the Rafidi Hizb al-Lat, as well as the destruction and disabling of several vehicles. Meanwhile, four Rafidi Hizb al-Lat fighters were killed and an M113 tank belonging to the Lebanese Army was disabled as their positions at Mount Khaz’al and the Harutah Valley in West Qalamun were pounded with several mortar and artillery rounds. On the 29th of Dhul-Qa’dah, approximately 40 Rafidi Hizb al-Lat fighters were killed and a number of others were wounded during fierce confrontations which they engaged in with the soldiers of the Khilafah in the areas of the Bard Valley, Sinn Mashtaqah, and Qarnat ‘Ajlun. Janub Wilayah On the 20th of Dhul-Qa’dah, the two knights Abu Yasin al-‘Iraqi and Abu Miqdad al-‘Iraqi  set out with their explosives-laden vehicle towards Rafidi army and Rafidi Mobilization gatherings at the Karbala cement factory south of the city of Karbala, where one of the inghimasiyyin disembarked from the vehicle and clashed with two Rafidi checkpoints, killing those present. He then stormed the factory’s residential complex, where he was killed after engaging in fierce clashes. Meanwhile, the second inghimasi headed with his explosives-laden vehicle towards a group of the murtaddin who had survived, and detonated his vehicle in their midst, killing and wounding at least 50 of them. Salahuddin Wilayah On the 24th of Dhul-Qa’dah, four inghimasiyyin assaulted the 13th Brigade base belonging to the Federal Police as well as a base providing transportation and logistics for the 60th Division located in the Masafi neighborhood in the area of 600 north of Bayji. The inghimasiyyin Abu Walid al-Ansari, Abu Khalid at-Tajiki, Quraysh at-Tajiki, and Hudhayfah al-Maghribi  succeeded in clashing with the murtaddin in the two bases using assault rifles and hand grenades, following which they detonated their explosive vests one after another, killing 30 murtaddin – among them an officer – and wounding 46 others, while additionally burning 15 vehicles. Likewise, support units pounded the two bases with Grad rockets.