Nifaq (hypocrisy): It is an incurable internal disease, in which a man may be filled with it while he is oblivious, for it is a matter hidden from the people, and frequently it can lead to a person thinking he is a doing right while in fact he is spreading corruption. It is of two types: Major and minor. As for major nifaq, its recompense is to abide eternally in the lowest part of Hell. It is to outwardly display to the Muslims iman in Allah, His Books, His Messengers, and the Day of Judgment…But in reality one is devoid from all of that and disbelieves in it – not believing that Allah spoke words which were revealed to man, appointing him a messenger unto mankind, guiding them by His permission and warning them of His might and punishment. Allah g surely did expose the munafiqin, and exposed their secrets in the Quran and displayed to His slaves their affairs that they may be on guard against nifaq and its people. The three categories of people were mentioned in the beginning of Surat Al-Baqarah: The believers, the kuffar, and the munafiqin, and so He mentioned about the believers four verses, and about the kuffar two verses, and about the munafiqin thirteen verses due to their large numbers and the generality of their trial, and the severity of their fitnah upon Islam and its adherents. Indeed, their affliction upon Islam is severe, due to their claims of affiliation, allegiance, and bringing victory to it, while in reality they are its enemies. Those who are ignorant think that what they are upon is sound knowledge and correctness, but it is the greatest extent of ignorance and corruption. By Allah, how many strongholds of Islam have they destroyed?! And how many of its bastions have they uprooted the foundations thereof and ruined?! And how many of its symbols have they erased?! And how many of its raised flags have they left and abandoned?! And how often have they struck at its roots with the pickaxes of doubt in order to uproot it?! And how much have they filled the springheads of its drinking places in order to bury them and cut them off?! And thus Islam and its people continue to be afflicted and tried by them, and it continues to be hammered by their suspicions – assault after assault – as they claim all the while to be righteous reformers…“Unquestionably, it is they who are the corrupters, but they perceive [it] not” (Al-Baqarah 12)…“They want to extinguish the light of Allah with their mouths, but Allah will perfect His light, although the disbelievers dislike it” (As-Saff 8). They agreed to abandon the revelation, and are united in their abandonment of seeking guidance through it…“But the people divided their religion among them into sects – each faction, in what it has, rejoicing” (Al- Muminun 53)…“Inspiring to one another decorative speech in delusion” (Al-An’am 112)…and because of that, “they have taken this Quran as [a thing] abandoned” (Al-Furqan 30). The attributes of iman are not found in their hearts, so they do not recognize them, and its institutions with them have been erased, so they do not maintain them, and its sun has been eclipsed by the gathering of the darkness of their opinions and ideas, so they cannot see it. They do not accept the guidance of Allah which He sent with His Messenger, nor do they give it any importance, nor do they see any problem in abandoning it for the sake of their own opinions and ideas. They have stripped the revealed text from its real status and they separated it from its significance and certain definitiveness, and thus they launched against it a barrage of false doubts, with which they continue to carry out ambush after ambush. It came upon them the way that a guest descends on stingy hosts, and so they received him in a way other than how they should have with acceptance and generosity. They received them from a distance, repelling them away. And they said, “You cannot pass us,” and if that was inevitable, then these texts would only pass with difficulty. In order to repel these texts, they prepared a variety of rules principles, and when these texts came upon them, they said, “What have we to do with linguistic phenoma that do not bring us any conviction.” Their general masses said, “Sufficient for us is what we found those that proceeded us upon from among the late comers, for they are more knowledgeable than those predecessors and more solid in their methods of establishing the proofs and evidences. They are those who were overcome by simplicity and the soundness of the heart, while not making time for laying out the foundations of examination. Rather, they dedicated their effort into doing that which was ordered and leaving that which was prohibited. Thus, the way of the late comers is more sound in knowledge and more precise, while the way of the predecessors was more ignorant, yet safer.” Thus, they made the status of the revealed text of the Quran and the Sunnah like that of the Khalifah in these times – his name minted on coins and exalted on the pulpits during the khutbah, while the judgment of others is that which is enforced and his judgment is neither heard nor accepted. They cloak themselves in the gown of iman, while their hearts are deviated and lost, filled with malice and disbelief. Their external is like that of the Ansar (supporters) while their internal is aligned to disbelief. Their tongues are the tongues of the Muslims, while their hearts are the hearts of those who transgress against them, and they say, “‘We believe in Allah and the Last Day,’ but they are not believers” (Al-Baqarah 8). Their capital is deception and conspiring, and their merchandise is lies and betrayal. Their intellects are driven by worldly benefits – both the believers and disbelievers are pleased with them – while they are secure from them both. “They [think to] deceive Allah and those who believe, but they deceive not except themselves and perceive [it] not” (Al-Baqarah 9). The diseases of doubts and desires have consumed their hearts and thus destroyed them, and evil intentions have overcome their ambitions and thus corrupted them. Consequently, their corruption has thrown them into destruction, and the doctors are unable to cure them. “In their hearts is disease, so Allah has increased their disease; and for them is a painful punishment because they [habitually] used to lie” (Al-Baqarah 10). Whosever falls victim to the claws of his own doubts will have his iman torn to pieces, and whosoever attaches his heart to the evil of his tribulations, it will cast him into the burning fire of torment, and whosoever gives ear to his own deceptive doubts will find it standing between his heart and belief. Their corruption on the earth is indeed immense, but most people are heedless to it. “And when it is said to them, ‘Do not cause corruption on the earth,’ they say, ‘We are but reformers.’ Unquestionably, it is they who are the corrupters, but they perceive [it] not” (Al-Baqarah 11-12). Those from them who follow the Quran and Sunnah do so only for show, like a donkey carrying volumes of books. They disregard and reject it, while considering its followers to be fools. “And when it is said to them, ‘Believe as the people have believed,’ they say, ‘Should we believe as the foolish have believed?’ Unquestionably, it is they who are the foolish, but they know [it] not” (Al-Baqarah 13). Each one of them has two faces: One face with which he greets the believers, and another face with which he returns to his disbelieving brothers. Likewise, he has two tongues: One based on which the believers receive him, and another with which he gives vent to his hidden secret. “And when they meet those who believe, they say, ‘We believe’; but when they are alone with their shayatin, they say, ‘Indeed, we are with you; we were only mockers’” (Al Baqarah 14). They have rejected the Quran and the Sunnah, mocking its followers and looking down on them. They refuse to submit to the judgment of the Quran and Sunnah due to their excitement over what they possess of knowledge, whose increase won’t bring them anything but arrogance and pride, and thus you will find them always mocking those who hold to the evident revealed text. However, “Allah mocks them and prolongs them in their transgression [while] they wander blindly” (Al- Baqarah 15). They pursue their trade in oceans of darkness, riding the vessels of doubts, as suspicions flow by them in illusionary waves. Strong winds disturb and play with their boats, casting them into destruction. “Those are the ones who have purchased error [in exchange] for guidance, so their transaction has brought no profit, nor were they guided” (Al-Baqarah 16). The fire of iman is illuminated for them and so they perceive in its light guidance and misguidance. Then, that fire is extinguished and what remains for them is the burning amber of the red hot ashes, and with they are punished and in its darkness they do wander blindly. “Their example is that of one who kindled a fire, but when it illuminated what was around him, Allah took away their light and left them in darkness [so] they could not see” (Al-Baqarah 17). The hearing of their hearts is overburdened with deafness and therefore cannot hear the caller of iman, and the eyes with which they see are covered with a veil and therefore cannot see the realities of the Quran, and their tongues are mute from the truth and therefore are unable to speak it. “Deaf, dumb and blind – so they will not return [to the right path]” (Al-Baqarah 18). The rain of revelation pours down upon them, containing life for the hearts and souls, but all they hear from it is its thunderous threats and promises, and the decrees that are assigned upon them night and day. And so they thrust their fingers into their ears, and cover themselves with their garments, seeking earnestly to flee, retracing their footprints in an attempt to escape. However, they are called out in public, and their reality is exposed before the people of clear sightedness, while two parables are struck for them, each parable in accordance with the situation of one of the two parties: Those who debate and those who blindly follow. “Or [it is] like a rainstorm from the sky within which is darkness, thunder and lightning. They put their fingers in their ears against the thunderclaps in dread of death. But Allah is encompassing of the disbelievers” (Al- Baqarah 19). Their foresightedness was too weak to tolerate what was contained within the rain of the lightning of illumination and the brightness of its meanings. Their ears were unable to bear the thunder of its promises, orders, and prohibitions, and so at that they halted in confusion, with the one with hearing unable to benefit from his hearing, and the one with sight unable to find his way using his sight. “The lightning almost snatches away their sight. Every time it lights [the way] for them, they walk therein; but when darkness comes over them, they stand [still]. And if Allah had willed, He could have taken away their hearing and their sight. Indeed, Allah is over all things competent” (Al-Baqarah 20). They possess characteristics that are known through the Quran and Sunnah, clear for those who reflect and are endowed with foresightedness and iman. By Allah, tey are people given to insincerity, and that is the most evil station where man can be positioned. Laziness has caused them to become careless in fulfilling the orders of the All-Merciful, thus making sincerity something heavy upon them. “Indeed, the munafiqin [think to] deceive Allah, but He is deceiving them. And when they stand for prayer, they stand lazily, showing [themselves to] the people and not remembering Allah except a little” (An-Nisa 142). They are like a lost sheep between two flocks, going from one flock to another while not settling among either one of them. They are standing between two parties, analyzing which one of them is stronger and more honorable. “Wavering between them, [belonging] neither to the believers nor to the disbelievers. And whoever Allah leaves astray – never will you find for him a way” (An-Nisa 143). They sit in wait and watch what will be the fate of the people of the Quran and Sunnah, and if it were the case that they are granted victory from Allah, they say, “Were we not with you?” And they would swear by Allah their strongest oaths. And if were the case that the enemies of the Quran and Sunnah were victorious the would say, “Don’t you realize that the bond of brotherhood between us is strong, and the kinship between us close?” Whosoever wishes to know who they are then let him learn of their characteristics from the words of the Lord of the creation, and one would then not require after that any more evidence: “Those who wait [and watch] you. Then if you gain a victory from Allah, they say, “Were we not with you?” But if the disbelievers have a success, they say [to them], “Did we not gain the advantage over you, but we protected you from the believers?” Allah will judge between [all of] you on the Day of Resurrection, and never will Allah give the disbelievers over the believers a way [to overcome them]” (An-Nisa 141). The listener is amazed by the mildness and sweetness of their sayings, while calling Allah to bear witness as to what his heart contains of lies and dishonesty. You will see him negligent upon the truth, and attentive to falsehood, so take heed of their characteristics from the words of the Holy, the Bestower of peace: “And of the people is he whose speech pleases you in worldly life, and he calls Allah to witness as to what is in his heart, yet he is the fiercest of opponents” (Al-Baqarah 204). What they enjoin upon their followers entails the corruption of the land and the people. What they prohibit is that which entails what is in their interests in this world and in the Hereafter. You would find one of them standing among the people of iman, praying, making dhikr, and striving in a state of zuhd. “And when he goes away, he strives throughout the land to cause corruption therein and destroy crops and animals. And Allah does not like corruption” (Al-Baqarah 205). They are all alike, enjoining the evil after having themselves committed it, and forbidding the good after having themselves abandoned it. They are miserly in giving their wealth in Allah’s cause and in ways which please Him. How many a time has Allah reminded of His blessings, but yet they turn away from His reminder and disregard it? And with how many of them has He exposed their reality to his believing slaves so that they may stay away from them? So listen carefully, O believer: “The hypocrite men and hypocrite women are of one another. They enjoin what is wrong and forbid what is right and close their hands. They have forgotten Allah, so He has forgotten them [accordingly]. Indeed, the hypocrites – it is they who are the defiantly disobedient” (At-Tawbah 67).