All praise is due to Allah, who saved us from the rule of the tawaghit, blessed us with the rule of the Shari’ah, and restored for us the Khilafah. May blessings and peace be upon His slave and messenger, who obliterated with the hoofs of his steed the rule of Jahiliyyah. I bear witness that there is no god except Allah, alone and without partner, and I bear witness that Muhamad is His slave and messenger. As for what follows: In this article we will discuss the rule of the Shari’ah, which is underataken by the Khalifah and his aides – may Allah grant them success – and which every soldier of the Islamic State works to safeguard, sacrificing their lives and everything dear to them for the sake of elevating it. Allah sent His Messenger g with the call to tawhid in Allah’s Lordship, in one’s worship towards Him, and in His names and attributes, and even though the people of Jahiliyyah affirmed the oneness of Allah in His Lordship, they negated that affirmation with their indulgence in various forms of shirk that run contrary to the three described aspects of Allah’s tawhid (ar-Rububiyyah, al- Uluhiyyah, and al-Asma was-Sifat). And Most of Them Believe Not in Allah Except That They Associate Others with Him Allah g informed that if the kuffar were asked, “To whom belongs the earth and those upon it?” They would answer, “To Allah,” and if they were asked, “Who is the Lord of the seven heavens and the Lord of the great throne?” They would answer, “[They belong] to Allah,” and if they were asked, “Who is it that has the realm of all things in His Hand and who protects while none can protect against Him?” They would answer, “[They belong] to Allah.” But despite that, they would not be reminded, nor would they fear Allah and His torment! And despite their affirmation that Allah g is the Owner of the dominion, the Creator, the Arranger, the Provider, the one who gives life and death, they commit shirk with Him by associating others with Him, while affirming that everything besides Allah is but mere creation. ‘Abdullah Ibn ‘Abbas h narrated, saying, “The mushrikin used to say, ‘We respond to You, You have no partner,’ and the Messenger of Allah g would say, ‘Woe to you, that’s sufficient, that’s sufficient! Then, they would say, ‘Except a partner who belongs to You, You possess him and all that he owns.’ They would say this as they performed tawaf around the Ka’bah” (Reported by Muslim). Despite the fact that the mushrikin used to take shelter with Allah in times of difficulty, in times of ease they would return back to what they were accustomed to of committing shirk with Allah. Allah g said, “And when they board a ship, they supplicate Allah, sincere to Him in religion. But when He delivers them to the land, at once they associate others with Him” (Al-’Ankabut 65). They committed shirk with Allah in their worship of others besides Him, calling upon others besides Him who cannot bring harm nor benefit, directing various forms of worship towards the tawaghit, referring to them in judgement, and inventing against Allah lies with their statement, “We only worship them that they may bring us nearer to Allah in position” (Az-Zumar 3). Allah g sent His messengers and prophets calling to iman in Allah and to dedicating one’s worship exclusively for Him, and to disbelieve in all of the tawaghit, for the iman of mankind and jinn is not complete until they combine between these two matters: Iman in Allah and disbelief in the tawaghit. Allah g said, “And We certainly sent into every nation a messenger, [saying], ‘Worship Allah and avoid taghut.’ And among them were those whom Allah guided, and among them were those upon whom error was [deservedly] decreed. So proceed through the earth and observe how was the end of the deniers” (An-Nahl 36). Therefore, anyone who refuses to dedicate their worship exclusively to Him, or refuses to avoid the tawaghit and disbelieve in them is a misguided denier of Allah’s messengers, and is deserving of Allah’s punishment, which He inflicts upon the disbelievers. The messengers p made it clear that Allah does not accept from His slaves anything except pure Islam and absolute tawhid, and they therefore informed the people that they were not sent except to ensure that Allah is worshiped alone, as Allah g said, “And We sent not before you any messenger except that We revealed to him that, ‘There is no god except Me, so worship Me’” (Al-Anbiya 25), and they informed them that Allah g, “Does not forgive association with Him, but He forgives what is less than that for whom He wills” (An-Nisa 48). And when the kuffar proposed to the Prophet g that they worship Allah for one year in return that he g worship their false gods for one year, Allah g revealed Surat al- Kafirun, separating between iman and its adherents, and shirk and its adherents. “Say, ‘O disbelievers, I do not worship what you worship. Nor are you worshipers of what I worship. Nor will I be a worshiper of what you worship. Nor will you be worshipers of what I worship. For you is your religion, and for me is my religion’” (Al- Kafirun 1-6). The Tawhid of Allah in Hukm (Legislation and Rule) The messengers p made clear to their people that which Allah loves and is pleased with of tawhid, iman, and righteous deeds, while warning them against that which negates this from the various types of kufr, shirk, defiance, and disobedience. And from among that which they made extremely clear was the matter of rule being for Allah g. Therefore, just as Allah g is alone in creating He is likewise alone in His command. “His is the creation and the command; blessed is Allah, Lord of the creation” (Al-A’raf 54). Additionally, three Makki verses were revealed stipulating that “Legislation is not but for Allah” (Al-An’am 57, Yusuf 40, and Yusuf 67). And despite the fact that the Prophet g and his companions were oppressed in Makkah, Allah g ordered him to openly declare that this great religion came from Allah in order to rule the affairs of the people in all spheres of life, and that it shouldn’t be abandoned in substitute of their desires. Hukm is the sole right of Allah g, and therefore just as He has no partner in worship, likewise He has no partner in His hukm. Allah g said regarding worship, “’So whoever would hope for the meeting with his Lord – let him do righteous work and not associate in the worship of his Lord anyone’” (Al-Kahf 110), and He said regarding hukm, “’And He shares not His hukm with anyone’” (Al-Kahf 26), and there are two mutawatir recitations for this: “’And He shares not His hukm with anyone,’” whereby Allah g declares that He does not share His hukm with any from amongst His creation, and the second “’And let him not associate anyone with Him in hukm,’” whereby He prohibits that any from amongst the creation be made a partner with Him in His hukm. And Allah g said, “Then We put you, [O Muhammad], on a shari’ah (an ordained way) concerning the matter [of religion]; so follow it and do not follow the inclinations of those who do not know” (Al-Jathiyah 18), and some of the scholars refer to this surah as the surah of Shari’ah due to this verse being mentioned within it. The Tawhid of Hukm Is Encompassed in the Three Categories of Tawhid Firstly: Its encompassment within the tawhid of lordship (ar-Rububiyyah): For Allah g is the one to whom the command belongs, and the one to whom belongs the right to rule and legislate, for these are the actions of Allah g (and from amongst them are those which are general and those which are specific) and that is from His exclusiveness and oneness in Lordship. Allah g said, “His is the creation and the command; blessed is Allah, Lord of the creation” (Al-A’raf 54). ‘Blessed’ (tabarak), meaning its good is abundant. So glory be to a god who creates and is capable, and who commands the performance of good deeds and the abandonment of destructive evil. Secondly: Its encompassment within the tawhid of names and attributes (al-Asma was-Sifat): For with regards to Allah g, “He is the Judge and to Him belongs hukm,” as established in the statement of the Prophet g reported by an-Nasai and Abu Dawud in the Sunan. Look at the noble verse, “[Say], ‘Then is it other than Allah I should seek as judge while it is He who has revealed to you the Book explained in detail?’” (Al-An’am 114), and see how it indicates the encompassment of judging by what Allah has revealed within the three categories of tawhid, for Allah g is the Judge, meaning the Ruler, and meaning the Wise, and thus the Judge is from amongst His names, and hukm is from His attributes and actions. “Indeed, Allah commands whatsoever He wills” (Al-Maidah 1). And in the ayah there is a rhetorical question that denotes denunciation: “[Say], “Then is it other than Allah I should seek as judge?!” For how could one who knows the magnificence of Allah, His perfect names, and His exalted attributes seek other than Allah as a judge? Thirdly: Its encompassment within the tawhid of worship (al Uluhiyah): Seeking judgment from Allah’s Shari’ah is worship that must be dedicated to Him alone, and seeking judgment from other than it is major shirk, and whoever seeks judgment from other than Allah’s Shari’ah has by default sought the judgment of the taghut and believed in it – and with Allah refuge is sought. Allah g said, “Have you not seen those who claim to have believed in what was revealed to you, [O Muhammad], and what was revealed before you? They wish to refer judgment to Taghut, while they were commanded to reject it; and Shaytan wishes to lead them far astray” (An-Nisa 60). Therefore, if mankind cannot enter Islam except by believing in Allah and disbelieving in the taghut, there is no doubt that those who seek judgment from one who rules by other than the Shari’ah have believed in the taghut, due to their referring to it for judgment, and whoever believes in the taghut is not a Muslim. We ask Allah for steadfastness upon His religion. It Is Either the Rule of Allah or the Rule of Jahiliyyah There is nothing after the rule of Allah, the Wise, the All-Knowing, other than the oppressive rule of the darkness of Jahiliyyah, and no matter what humans name their laws and systems they remain the rule of Jahiliyyah, which the whims of the kuffar manipulate. Its people enjoy no stability in its decrees, nor do they achieve any religious or worldly success. But who is the one who knows that the rule of Allah is the best of rule? Indeed, it is the believer who has certainty. “Then is it the judgment of Jahiliyyah that they desire? But who is better than Allah in judgment for a people who are certain [in faith]” (Al- Maidah 50). We ask Allah g to grant the Khilafah State victory, to keep its leaders and soldiers steadfast, and to restrain the might of the disbelievers, and Allah is greater in might and stronger in punishment.