O mujahidin! The munafiqin and those who block the way to Allah will say to you, “Do you think that anything of what you want will become reality? Do you think that the Islamic khilafah or even the Islamic state will be established? It is impossible to happen, and it is a matter closer to imagination than to reality.” So when they say this, remember the statement of Allah g, “[Remember] when the hypocrites and those in whose hearts was disease said, ‘Their religion has deluded those [Muslims].’ But whoever relies upon Allah – then indeed, Allah is Exalted in Might and Wise” (Al-Anfal 49). And say to them, “Indeed, Allah will conquer Rome for the Muslims, as per the promise of the Messenger of Allah g in the authentic narration, just as Qustantiniyyah was conquered before.” Tell them: Indeed we anticipate from Allah’s support that which is farther than that…Indeed, we anticipate from Allah that He will conquer the White House, the Kremlin, and London…And with us is the promise of Allah: “Allah has promised those who have believed among you and done righteous deeds that He will surely grant them succession [to authority] upon the earth just as He granted it to those before them” (An-Nur 55). As for when this will be, then this is not our concern and Allah did not make us responsible for it. Instead, He only made us responsible for working for the religion, and for the defense of the Shari’ah, and to do this according to one’s ability and to strive to one’s utmost. As for the results, they pertain to Allah c. So upon you is to plant the seed, not to pluck the fruit And Allah is the best Helper of those who proceed forth When Imam Ahmad r was afflicted with the fitnah of the creation of the Quran and when this fitnah appeared with the strength of the ruler, the head of this heresy, Ahmad Ibn Abi Dawud, came to Imam Ahmad, gloating, “Have you not seen how falsehood has triumphed over the truth, O Ahmad?” So Imam Ahmad r said, “Indeed, falsehood has not triumphed over the truth…Indeed, the triumph of falsehood over the truth is when the hearts of the people wander from the truth to falsehood. And our hearts after yet firm upon the truth.” Say to these as Ya’qub n said, “‘Indeed, I find the smell of Yusuf [and would say that he was alive] if you did not think me weakened in mind.’” (Yusuf 94) So despite these tribulations and hardships, we find the wind of relief, victory, and consolidation…Although you might argue, and many people would say to you, “Indeed, you are in your old shadows.” The munafiqin said to the Sahabah after the battle of Uhud, “Return to the religion of your fathers.” And these words, the munafiqin say them to the people of iman in every era when the mujahidin for the cause of Allah are struck by a calamity, or face killing, wounding, imprisonment, and torture. If they say that to you, tell them, “Indeed, Allah defends those who have believed” (Al-Hajj 38). “And Allah will surely support those who support Him” (Al-Hajj 40). And the munafiqin will say to you about the companions of ar Raji’ with whom the mushrikin acted treacherously, “Woe to these afflicted ones who died like this. They neither stayed with their families, nor did they deliver the message of their companion.” And these words will be said to you these days every time some of the brothers are killed…Neither did they sit behind and stay safe, nor were they able to remove the evils and destructions. So, when you hear this, tell them what the truthful Khadijah said, “Glad tidings! For by Allah, Allah will never humiliate you!” So we say to every mujahid for the sake of Allah: Nay! Allah will never humiliate you, for you maintain the ties of kinship, defend the Shari’ah, and wage jihad for the sake of Allah against the disbelievers from among the Jews, Crusaders, and murtaddin. The historian, Muhammad al-Bassam, said in his book ad-Durar wal-Mafakhir fi Akhbar al-‘Arab al- Awakh about the scholars of the Najdi da’wah in their fight against the King of Misr (Egypt), “And no, by Allah, the ruler of Misr did not conquer them due to any weakness on their part or due to cowardice, but because of treachery from the Arabs or with the approval of the residents of the lands.” O mujahidin! You have sold yourselves to Allah c and there is nothing in front of you except for one choice, which is to hand over the purchase to the buyer: “Indeed, Allah has purchased from the believers their lives and their properties [in exchange] for that they will have Paradise. They fight in the cause of Allah, so they kill and are killed. [It is] a true promise [binding] upon Him in the Torah and the Gospel and the Qur’an. And who is truer to his covenant than Allah? So rejoice in your transaction which you have contracted. And it is that which is the great attainment” (At-Tawbah 111). And when the buyer has received the purchase, he may then do with it what he wants. If he wants, he puts him in a castle or in a prison or dresses him with the best of clothes or makes him naked such that only his private area is covered or he makes him rich or he makes him destitute or he hangs him on the gallows or lets the enemy overpower him to kill him and mutilate him. The author of Dhilal r says while commenting on the events of the Companions of the Trench (Ashab al-Ukhdud), “This paradigm in which the believers do not escape and in which the disbelievers are not seized is necessary. This is so that it becomes fixed in the perception of the believers’ – the companions of the call of Allah – that they might be called to an end like this end on their path to Allah, and that they have no decision in this matter, and their affair and the affair of the ‘aqidah is up to Allah. It is upon them to perform their duty, and then they go. And their duty is to choose Allah, and to favor the ‘aqidah over life, and to overcome tribulations with iman and to be truthful to Allah in deed and intention. Then, Allah will work, utilizing them and their enemies, just as He does with His call and His religion as He wishes, and will bring them to one of the ends which are known in the history of iman or to something else from that which Allah knows and deems appropriate.” And they are indeed hired workers before Allah… Is it appropriate for one who sells a sheep to become angry with the buyer if he slaughters it, or for his heart to change because of that?! Have you not heard what happened to the lion of Allah and the lion of His Messenger (Hamzah)? He was disemboweled, his liver was extracted, and he was mutilated. And [have you not heard] that which occurred to the best of the creation g on the day of Uhud? Consider the prophets and messengers, who are best of the creation: Ibrahim n was cast into a fire, Zakariyya was sawn apart, Yahya was slaughtered, Ayyub remained in tribulations for years, Yunus was caught in the belly of the whale, and Yusuf was sold for a cheap price and lingered in prison for several years – all this and they remained pleased with their Lord and Protector, Al-Haqq. Some of the Salaf would say, “It is more beloved to me that my body be torn apart with scissors than for me to say about something that Allah decreed, ‘If only it didn’t happen!’” Therefore, O my brothers, be from those whose planning does not compete with the planning of their Lord, and whose choices do not resist the choices of Allah g, for they have never interfered in Allah’s plan for His kingdom by saying, “If this would have been, then this would have happened,” nor by saying, “it may be” or “perhaps” or “if only.” For the choice of Allah for His believing slave is the greatest choice, and it is better, no matter how hard and difficult its appearance may be, and regardless of how much wealth or position or power or family may be lost, or even the loss of the world altogether. And remember the story of the Battle of Badr and ponder over it well: Some of the companions j at the time wanted to capture the caravan, but Allah g chose for them to march forth for battle, and the difference between the two affairs is great. What was in the caravan? Nothing but food, which is eaten and then goes to the toilet, and dress that is worn and then thrown away, and fleeting worldly matters. As for marching forth, through it came the criterion by which Allah distinguished between truth and falsehood, and with it came the defeat of shirk and its downfall, and the rise of tawhid and its manifestation. And with it came the killing of the leaders of the mushrikin, who stood like a rock in front of Islam. And it is enough that Allah said to the participants in the Battle of Badr, “Do what you want, for I have forgiven you.” O mujahidin! At the time of tribulation those retreating increase in number, so do not grieve because of that, for Muslim reported in his sahih from Anas h that Quraysh made peace with the Messenger of Allah g and stipulated, “that whoever of you comes [to us] we will not return him to you, and whoever from us comes to you will be returned by you to us.” So the companions said, “Do we write this?” He said, “Yes.” As for the one who goes from us to them, “may Allah distance him from us,” and as for the one who comes to us from them, Allah will grant him relief and a way out. So do not be sad about the one whom Allah has distanced. And how excellent is what Ibnul Qayyim r said: “Upon you is to pursue the way of truth and to not feel alone due to the scarcity of travelers [on this path]. And every time you feel alone, look to your previous companions and strive to join them. And pay no heed to those other than them, for they will not suffice you anything. And if they call out to you on your way do not look at them, for if you turn to them they would take you and obstruct you.” So be careful of letting your hearts listen to the doubts that are put forth by the highwaymen and defeatists in order to prevent you from the way of jihad. For the affair is purely success from Allah g, for indeed Allah did not pardon those ones, so He abandoned them, despite what they carry in their chests and minds of abundant books and texts. So the matter isn’t about the abundance of knowledge, but about fear of Allah, which results in the criterion of iman: “O you who have believed, if you fear Allah, He will grant you a criterion and will remove from you your misdeeds and forgive you. And Allah is the possessor of great bounty” (Al-Anfal 29). May Allah be merciful with Shaykhul-Islam, who said, “And the Ummah has taken all that there is of the sciences, so if Allah illuminates a person’s heart, He guides him with what reaches him of that, and if He makes a person blind, the abundance of books does not increase him in anything but confusion and misguidance.” O Allah, grant the muwahhidin consolidation in the land! O Allah, grant the mujahidin consolidation in the land! O Allah, mobilize their armies, dispatch their detachments, and make their intentions pure! O Allah, protect them with Your protection! O Allah, protect them with Your protection! O Allah, protect them with Your protection! O Allah, protect them with Your Eye which does not sleep, whereas the creation sleeps! O Allah, make easy for them all that is good! O Allah, if anyone wants good for them, grant him success in all that is good, and if anyone wants evil for them, seize him with the seizing of one who is mighty and capable! O Allah, protect them, and protect their honor! O Allah, protect them, and protect their honor! O Allah, protect them, and protect their honor! O Allah, they are indeed destitute, so grant them honor through Your glory, O Lord of the creation! O Allah, they are poor, so make them rich from Your bounty, O Lord of the worlds! O Allah, revive the Ummah of Muhammad! O Allah, revive the Ummah of Muhammad! O Allah, revive the Ummah of Muhammad! O Allah, give victory to the Ummah of Muhammad! O Lord of the creation! O our Lord, O our Lord! O our Lord, support us against the oppressive people! O our Lord, support us against the disbelievers! O Allah, take from our blood until You are pleased! O Allah, take from our blood until You are pleased! O Allah, take from our blood until You are pleased! O Allah, the bellies of the beasts of prey and the crops of the birds! O Allah, the bellies of the beasts of prey and the crops of the birds! O Allah, the bellies of the beasts of prey and the crops of the birds! And all praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the creation.