The people of falsehood constantly attempt to make the deaths of righteous men and their slayings by the enemies of Islam – the mushrikin and the apostates – into a sign foretelling the breaking of the muwahiddin. But those fools do not realize that Allah has ordained for each soul its set term before He created the heavens and the earth. Allah said, “And each nation has its set term. They can neither delay it for an hour nor advance it” (Al-A’raf 34). In this decree, all people are equal, including prophets and righteous people as well as disbelievers and tyrants. Those fools do not realize that Allah preserves His religion however He wills, and this religion will remain established and will not be damaged by the death of any person. If it would have been damaged by anything, it would have been by the death of the Prophet and those of his noble Companions. But the religion remained long after their departure, as Allah established its foothold and spread it on the earth. He preserved it and employed His righteous slaves in its service. “He loves them and they love Him; humble to the believers and mighty against the disbelievers, they wage jihad for His cause and do not fear the blame of any blamer” (Al-Maidah 54). As for the learned who revere Allah as He should be revered, worshiping Him as He should be worshiped, when one of the righteous from among them die, they remind their brothers of what Abu Bakr as-Siddiq said to his companions, “Whoever worshiped Muhammad, then verily Muhammad has died. And whoever worshiped Allah, then verily Allah is alive and does not die” (Reported by al-Bukhari from ‘Aishah and Ibn ‘Abbas). As for the mujahidin in Allah’s cause – and they are the elite of His creation, those of His slaves whom He has chosen to become martyrs and whom He subjects to favorable tests – then the death of their leaders and commanders who stormed ahead of them into battle, running head first into hardships for their religion, only increases their firmness and determination in fighting the enemies of Allah. The words of the mujahidin are like those of Anas Ibn an-Nadhr to the Companions of Allah’s Messenger, when he found them, on the Day of Uhud, encumbered by hearing the mushrikin claiming to have killed the Messenger of Allah. He said, “Why do you sit?” They said, “Allah’s Messenger has been killed!” He said, “So what will you do in this life after him? Stand and die upon that for which Allah’s Messenger has died!” Then he faced the enemy and fought until he was killed (Sirat Ibn Hisham). This is the way of the muwahhidin in every time and place. Whenever a generation of them passes, another generation follows, holding the banner of tawhid overhead while plunging anew into the battle for Islam, which continues to be waged against shirk and its people. The slogan of each of them is, “Stand and die upon that for which your brothers in faith before you have died.”  The killing of our persevering brothers who preceded us, like Shaykh Abu Muhammad al-‘Adnani will not harm Islam at all, as it is preserved by Allah, just as it will never harm our brothers. We consider them to be those who emerged as fighters for Allah’s cause, seeking shahadah without turning back. Allah said about them, “And do not consider those who were killed for Allah’s cause as dead – rather, they are alive. They are provided for with their Lord, rejoicing in what Allah has bestowed upon them of His bounty, being cheerful of those who have yet to join them, that they shall have no fear, nor shall they grieve; cheerful of a blessing and grace from Allah and that Allah will not let the reward of the believers be lost” (Al ‘Imran 169-171). By Allah’s permission, their slaying will not harm the Islamic State as long as it proceeds upon Tawhid and the Sunnah. Men shall continue to be employed by Allah to frustrate the kuffar, thereby healing the hearts of a believing people, just as Allah employed those who established its foundations and raised its bases, until it reached, by Allah’s grace, what it has reached today of dignity and empowerment. When the mushrikin and murtaddin rejoiced over the killing of Shaykh Abu Mus’ab az-Zarqawi, the thought did not enter their minds that Allah would employ from the soldiers and brothers of the Shaykh those who would rub their noses into the ground and infuriate their hearts, just as He employed Shaykh Abu Muhammad al-‘Adnani. Today, they rejoice over the killing of Shaykh Abu Muhammad al-‘Adnani. However, they shall shed many tears when Allah places over them – by His permission – one of the many soldiers and brothers of Abu Muhammad who will inflict them with a far worse torment. “And surely Allah will support those who support Him. Truly, Allah is Strong and Mighty” (Al-Hajj 40).