In his conversation with the Islamic State’s Naba newsletter, the amir of the Central Office for Investigating Grievances clarified the reason behind the office’s establishment, and the role it plays in eliminating the injustices that might afflict both the subjects and soldiers of the Islamic State. He likewise clarified the mechanism through which the office works to process the cases that reach it, eventually settling them by either removing injustice from those afflicted by it or verifying the absence of injustice in a case and informing the complainant thereof. Question: Why was the Central Office for Investigating Grievances established? Answer: All praise is due to Allah. May Allah’s blessings be upon His noble messenger and those who follow his guidance until the Day of Judgment. As for what follows: Indeed, Allah ordered justice and made it among His lofty attributes. He said, “Indeed, Allah orders justice and good conduct and giving to relatives and forbids immorality and bad conduct and oppression. He admonishes you that perhaps you will be reminded” (An-Nahl 90). He also said, “And the word of your Lord has been fulfilled in truth and justice. None can alter His words, and He is the Hearing, the Knowing” (Al-An’am 115). He likewise negated injustice from Himself; He said, “Indeed, Allah does not wrong the people, but it is the people who wrong themselves” (Yunus 44). He also forbade injustice in all its forms, including associating partners with Allah, which is the greatest act of injustice, as Allah has described: “And [mention], when Luqman said to his son while he was instructing him, ‘O my son, do not commit shirk with Allah. Indeed, shirk is a great injustice’” (Luqman 13). It is also from injustice for a person to wrong himself by disobeying the command of Allah and transgressing His limits, as He said, “And whoever transgresses the limits of Allah has certainly wronged himself ” (At-Talaq 1). It is also from injustice for a person to wrong another individual by transgressing against his rights, as Allah said, “He [Dawud] said, ‘He has certainly wronged you in demanding your ewe [in addition] to his ewes. And indeed, many associates oppress one another, except for those who believe and do righteous deeds – and few are they’” (Sad 24). Indeed, the establishment of the religion is not fully actualized except with the removal of all forms of injustice, and this is what the Islamic State today is working to achieve, by Allah’s grace. By waging war against shirk and subjecting the people to the rule of the Lord of all creation, the greater injustice is eliminated. And by commanding virtue and forbidding vice that which becomes manifest of man’s injustice towards himself through sin and vice is eliminated. And by establishing Allah’s law among the people, implementing the hudud, and holding the people back from committing transgression, they are prevented from doing injustice to one another. Within this framework, the Islamic State established various bodies responsible for preventing the people from wronging one another and for eliminating injustice when it occurs from any individual or any party, and from among these bodies is the Central Office for Investigating Grievances. Question: What are the other bodies in the Islamic State that oversee the prevention of wrongdoing and the elimination of injustice among the people? Answer: The basic principle concerning this matter is that supporting one who has been wronged and taking the wrongdoer to account – even if he is a Muslim – is a crucial duty compulsory on every Muslim, as the Prophet said, “Come to your brother’s aid whether he is the wronged one or the wrongdoer.” A man asked, “O Messenger of Allah, I will come to his aid if he is wronged, but if he is the wrongdoer how can I come to his aid?” He said, “By obstructing him or preventing him from doing injustice, for to do so is to come to his aid” (Reported by al-Bukhari from Anas). This duty becomes even more compulsory when it comes to the soldiers of the Islamic State, given the trust which the leaders have burdened them to carry in this regard. The duty of the soldiers is in assisting their brothers in doing their job, those brothers who’ve been tasked with investigating grievances. Due to the importance of preventing injustice, it’s become necessary for there to be designated bodies tasked solely with handling this issue. As such, the Islamic State – by Allah’s grace alone – established offices for grievances which fall under the Diwan of Judgment and Grievances, as well as offices for grievances in all the wilayat of the Islamic State which are under the direct administration of the offices of the wulat (plural of wali) such that the cases connected to the soldiers and leaders under the wali’s authority will reach them. Likewise, the Central Office for Investigating Grievances was established as an independent body specifically tasked with handling this issue. All of these bodies work together to investigate cases in which there is a sense of injustice, and to continue following up on them until the injustice – if it exists – is eliminated. Question: What is the purpose of having multiple bodies for tracking cases of injustice? Answer: The Prophet said, “Every one of you is a shepherd and every one of you is responsible for his flock” (Reported by al-Bukhari and Muslim from Ibn ‘Umar). It is obligatory on anyone who has been entrusted by Allah with anything of the affairs of the Muslims to prevent those he is responsible for from suffering injustice, and if it reaches him that this has occurred, he must endeavor to remove the injustice from them. For this reason, there are multiple bodies in the Islamic State responsible for eliminating injustice, such that the subjects and soldiers of the Islamic State in the wilayat are able to lodge complaints with the wulat against the soldiers and leaders under their authority, and that people who have cases in the courts are able to lodge complaints with the Diwan of Judgment against the judges’ rulings so that their rulings can be reviewed, and that the Muslims in general who are residing in Dar al-Islam can lodge complaints against the wulat themselves or against the heads of the dawawin and the military leaders, or lodge complaints about the administrative procedures in the various dawawin with the Delegated Committee, which is the body that has tasked the Central Office for Investigating Grievances with this mission. In this manner, we would have – by Allah’s permission – made effort to open the door for the people to put forth their grievances against any individual or body in the Islamic State, and removed any factors preventing their cases from being resolved under the pretext that the body with whom cases are lodged is not responsible for investigating them, or that no one has any power over the accused party. Question: What are the procedures the office follows when tracking cases that have been referred to it? Answer: Once we’ve received a case and registered it, if there is a sense that injustice might have occurred in the case based on the complainant’s claims, we investigate the case, otherwise we dismiss it immediately. The case is then examined, and if it has to do with someone under the authority of the wulat or the heads of the dawawin, it is transferred to them to investigate and report the results of the investigation to the office so they can re-assess the case. If the investigation meets all the requirements and the judgment is appropriate, the judgment is then validated, and if the investigation is deficient or the judgment in the case is inappropriate, it is transferred back to them for re-examination and our role at this point is to track the case on a continuous basis to ensure that it is re-examined and quickly resolved. If, however, the case has to do with one of the wulat or one of the heads of the dawawin, or is against one of the Islamic State’s departments, we take up the matter and summon the accused or one of their representatives in order to investigate the case and listen to their defense concerning the issues that have been brought against them. A judgment is then made concerning the case, either redressing the grievance if the case is established, punishing or disciplining the wrongdoer, or dismissing the case if it becomes apparent that the accuser’s claims are false. Question: With regards to the cases you investigate, you mentioned the term “sense of injustice.” What do you mean by that? Answer: In order for it to become clear, I’ll give you two examples to compare so that you can understand what I mean. The first example: A leader transfers one of the soldiers under his command to another area due to his need for him in that area, either for a position that needs to be covered, or because of a need for his specialization, or for some similar reason, and the soldier considers this unjust because it will take him far away from his family and place of residence. The second example: A leader transfers one of the soldiers under his command to another area as a form of discipline for an act of negligence or a mistake, or as a pre-emptive measure to prevent the occurrence of something the leader is trying to avoid, and the soldier considers this unjust because the disciplinary punishment is not in line with the mistake he committed or because he doesn’t think he made a mistake to begin with. In the first case, there is no sense that any injustice has occurred since it is the leader’s right to transfer either one or all of his soldiers if the situation requires it and he is deserving of their obedience to him in that regard. As for the second case, there is a sense that injustice may have occurred, so we would work on the case until we determine the actual presence of injustice in the case and thus eliminate it, by Allah’s permission. Through the course of investigating hundreds of cases since the office was established we found that with nearly half of them there was no sense that any injustice had occurred, and they could in fact be called complaints or objections. As for the cases in which there was a sense that injustice may have occurred, we took them up, walhamdulillah, and settled the cases in relatively short periods of time, either by eliminating the injustice – if any had occurred – and taking the wrongdoer to account, or by explaining to the accuser the reason for dismissing his case if it became apparent that the accused was innocent of committing any injustice. Question: Are there other tasks that the office is responsible for? Answer: Yes, for by Allah’s grace, the office has committees that visit the various prisons in the Islamic State in order to meet with the prisoners and those under investigation so they can look into their affairs and take their complaints if they have any. There are also committees that visit the frontiers and the ribat lines in order to follow up on the soldiers’ circumstances and look into their issues. In both matters, any cases in which there is a sense that injustice may have occurred are forwarded to the central office for investigation. This is in addition to the meetings held with the tribal heads and dignitaries in order to listen to their complaints and forward them to those in authority so they can be looked into. Question: Is there any statement with which you would like to conclude this interview? Answer: We advise the Muslims in general and the soldiers of the Islamic State in particular not to wrong one another, and to know that injustice has a terrible end, and that it will be darkness on the Day of Judgment as described by the Prophet. If anyone is wronged by his brother and wants to reclaim his right from him, the doors of the Central Office for Investigating Grievances as well as those of the other offices tasked with this matter are open before him. He should forward his grievance to us, and if there is a right that belongs to him we will take back that right from whoever wronged him – even if it is someone who is among the dearest people to us – and we will not be dissuaded in that regard by the blame of any critic, by Allah’s permission. And if anyone is aware of himself having committed any injustice, he should fear Allah, hasten to repent, return any rights to whomever they belong, and seek pardon from the person he has wronged. And if anyone hears of a case of injustice that hasn’t reached us, let him not fail to assist the one who was wronged in forwarding his grievance to us – for among those wronged may be the weak, and among them may be an ignorant person who does not know how to forward his grievance or go about seeking his right – for if it reaches us he would have succeeded in delivering the grievance to those in authority and would be free of any blame before Allah. As for he who is silent concerning an injustice of which he is aware – by not conveying it to us – then he has aided the wrongdoer by remaining silent and has further emboldened him to commit injustice. We ask Allah to rectify our condition and grant our lives a favorable end. Indeed, He is capable of ensuring that and bringing it about. May Allah send blessings and peace upon our prophet, Muhammad. And all praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the creation.