“And whoever Allah guides – for him there is no misleader. Is not Allah Exalted in Might and Owner of Retribution?” (Az-Zumar 37). Here on this straight path of guidance lies the embodiment of triumph – bloodied, dismembered, radiant. It is the shahid Abu Mansur al-Muhajir (Ezzit Raad). We consider him so, and Allah is his judge. From a young age, the chivalrous muhajir refused to be subjugated by the shackles of humiliation and this perishing world. He chose, instead, to surrender his soul in obedience of his Lord and to wield the weapons of faith and honor in defiance of the kafir masses. He remained steadfast in the face of everything he was afflicted with, never weakening, never surrendering, until Allah gave him triumph and his blood was spilled, pouring forth and fueling the lantern that illuminates this noble path so that those who follow may traverse upon a clear road. Indeed, this is the path of those who are truthful with their Lord, and no man has ever marched upon it and tasted the sweetness of self-sacrifice, except that they did so through Allah’s guidance, and if we were to reflect on the story of Abu Mansur, and the story of the mujahir mujahid in general, we would truly be humbled by the monumental statement of our Lord, “Allah guides whom He wills to a straight path” (Al-Baqarah 213). Abu Mansur – originally from Lebanon – came from Melbourne, Australia, a land cloaked in darkness and corrupted by kufr, fornication, and all forms of vice. Yet even in the midst of this darkness – and by Allah’s will – the flame of tawhid was ignited within his heart at the young age of 22 through the da’wah of a brother who visited the grieving Abu Mansur shortly after the death of his eldest brother, Mansur. Thereafter, Abu Mansur made his way the way of the true believer, answering Allah’s clear statement, “So do not weaken and do not grieve, and you will be superior if you are believers” (Al ‘Imran 139). With a newly acquired unyielding fervor and zeal for his religion, Abu Mansur raced his brothers towards righteousness. He invited others to this noble path, but only to be confronted with the fitnah of strangeness and severe enmity, which began surfacing itself in Australia after the blessed attacks of September 11th, following which the camp of iman and kufr became more distinct. The so-called “Islamic” organizations in Australia were pressured to do things in order to appease the kuffar, change their da’wah, and practice “Islam” in a manner that was acceptable to the Australian government. The so-called “Muslim” imams cloaked their cowardice with the words “hikmah” and “maslahah” until, as Shaykh Anwar al-‘Awlaqi described, they left the teachings of the Prophet Muhammad and “maslahah” became an idol that they began to worship. Abu Mansur, however, was not one to make concessions to the kuffar at the expense of his religion. This angered the Australian government forcing them to plot against the muhawiddin with new, retrospective anti-terrorism laws that allowed them to prosecute and imprison Abu Mansur for being part of a terrorist organization. As Allah says, “They resented them not except because they believed in Allah, the Exalted in Might, the Praiseworthy” (Al-Buruj 8). They also hated and targeted Abu Mansur and his likes because of their disassociation from the kuffar, which was nothing but the excellent example of Ibrahim, who said to his people, “Indeed, we are innocent of you and from whatever you worship other than Allah. We have disbelieved in you, and there has appeared between us and you animosity and hatred forever until you believe in Allah alone” (Al-Mumtahanah 4). During his imprisonment, Abu Mansur witnessed the betrayal of the imams of kufr, which added to his feeling of strangeness. In particular, he witnessed the treachery of the apostate Samir Mohtadi, who volunteered as a witness for the prosecution against the brothers, as well as the apostate Mohammed Omran (Abu Ayman), who called on his followers to participate in the kufri religion of democracy, and also called on them to disassociate themselves from the imprisoned brothers and their families. At the same time, these “imams” competed with one another to appease the kuffar by erecting “moderate” Islamic centers. Rather than inciting their followers to carry swords, they encouraged them to carry pamphlets and make “street da’wah” to bikini-clad women. They carried on with their pacifist and even pro-democracy da’wah while Muslim women around the world were being abused, vilified, imprisoned, and violated at the hands of the kuffar and their puppets. This was one of the things that burned Abu Mansur the most, for he had tremendous jealousy for his sisters and his eyes would well with tears every time he heard of their suffering. As the fitnah of strangeness increased around Abu Mansur during his five years of imprisonment, his iman also increased and he drew closer to his Lord. Despite missing the birth of his eldest son and his daughters’ childhoods, he remained patient, spending his time memorizing much of the Quran and reflecting upon it and the reality of sacrifice. Abu Mansur was released from prison more emboldened and more steadfast upon this path. He quickly set out to make hijrah, leaving behind his beloved wife and four children in order to bring triumph to this religion and to quench his thirst for the blood of the Nusayriyyah. Allah opened the door of hijrah for Abu Mansur and he became among the first muhajirin to enter the blessed land of epic battles – the land of Sham. He quickly sought to join the Islamic State – which was operating under the name “Jabhat an-Nusrah” at the time – and become a part of the project to unite the Ummah through the revival of the Khilafah. Upon Abu Mansur’s arrival in northern Halab, one of the senior leaders of the Islamic State – Abu Bakr al-‘Iraqi – met with Abu Mansur and immediately recognized his truthfulness. By Allah’s grace, he became one of his closest companions. Abu Mansur would then go on to partake in many battles. Within just one month of giving bay’ah, he participated in the victorious battle of Ta’anah in the Halab countryside, and the battle of ‘Azizah, where he went in as an inghimasi only to come out alive by Allah’s decree. He quickly developed a reputation as a fierce warrior. He would race his brothers towards martyrdom, though many of them beat him to it, including his close friend from Australia Abu Salma (Sami Salma) who was killed in the battles for the Sikak (the Railroad). Abu Mansur, in fact, thought that he’d be killed in just a few months due to the ferocity of the fighting, but Allah blessed him with four years of jihad before granting him shahadah. From the frontlines of Sikak, Abu Mansur was transferred to the “Eye Hospital” base in Halab. Here, he began witnessing firsthand the emerging signs of misguidance in the policies of al-Jawlani and his cronies, including al Jawlani’s willingness to make concessions in the religion and sell the blood of the mujahidin for the appeasement of the deviant factions in the so-called “Shar’i” Committee in Halab, which al-Jawlani had joined without approval from the top leadership of the Islamic State. It came as no surprise, therefore, that Abu Mansur immediately renewed his bay’ah to Amirul-Muminin after the blessed announcement of the Islamic State of Iraq and Sham, in obedience to Allah’s command, “O you who have believed, fear Allah and be with the truthful” (At-Tawbah 119). The enmity of the various factions and the fitnah of strangeness only increased when the sahwat launched their war against the Islamic State. During the Sahwah offensive, Abu Mansur was besieged in Huraytan, his amir Abu Bakr al-‘Iraqi, who was like a father-figure to him, was killed, and he was separated from his child and his second wife whom he had married in Sham. Yet he would never become dejected due to his firm belief in the qadar of Allah. Rather, he would always be pleased with Allah’s decree and remain patient. As the Islamic State battled its way out of Huraytan, Abu Mansur’s words and lofty example continued to inspire those around him, particularly the young Australians who stayed close to him, including the young Abu Bakr (Adam Dahman) who quickly signed up to undertake an istishhadi operation against the sahwat but did not get to execute it due to the Islamic State breaking the siege in Huraytan before his opportunity came, leading him to later travel to Iraq instead, and conduct an istishhadi operation on a Rafidi shrine, killing and wounding over 90 Rafidi murtaddin. May Allah accept him into the highest ranks of Jannah. After Allah humiliated the sahwat at the hands of the Islamic State, Abu Mansur was assigned to do administrative work, despite his preference to remain on the battlefield. He was then granted permission to leave and help head up a new training camp. However, this role was short-lived as he was quickly transferred and placed as the amir of the Faruq Dam and the surrounding villages. His pleasant nature made him a truly beloved leader as he attended to the diverse needs of the community with diligence and taqwa. Assisting him in this role was his close friend from Australia whom he loved dearly, Abu Zakariyya (Abu Bakr Jabir), otherwise known as the “tall man” due to his lofty height and noble character. Abu Zakariyya continued assisting him for two years before he also attained shahadah after being hit by an airstrike while inspecting the ribat points in and around the Faruq Dam. Reflecting on Abu Zakariyya’s shahadah, Abu Mansur said, “He achieved it before me. He was more truthful than me.” This was the humble nature of Abu Mansur. The shahadah of Abu Zakariyya was followed by the shahadah of a close family member of Abu Mansur, Abul-Mundhir (Nidal Ramadan, the brother of Abu Mansur’s wife), who was killed in a drone strike and Abu Bakr al-’Iraqi 17 whose wife and child were also killed in an earlier drone strike that had targeted him. This triggered within Abu Mansur an unyielding passion to return to the frontlines. He repeatedly requested to be relinquished of his duties as amir and be given permission to fight. His requests were always rejected outright until Allah answered his du’a and the frontlines came to him instead as the PKK advanced from Sirrin towards the Faruq Dam. This, however, was only after the US-led coalition bombed everything in their path, as the PKK are cowards, incapable of facing the mujahidin. Yet Abu Mansur never feared the Crusader airstrikes, as the remembrance of Allah’s greatness always overwhelmed him. He would proclaim, “If they strike me, then it is only by Allah’s decree. So how can I fear them? Isn’t the plane just a speck in the sky over this city of ours? And isn’t this city just a speck on this planet. And isn’t this planet just a speck next to those stars that decorate this universe like lanterns? And then what about the seven heavens and what about the kursi (footstool) of Allah the Almighty? What about the hadith that states, ‘The comparison of the seven heavens to the kursi is but like a ring thrown in a desert, and the excellence of the ‘arsh (throne) over the kursi is like the excellence of that desert over that ring’? This is the greatness of Allah compared to that fighter jet! Verily, it is He whom we should fear!” He would then recite, “Do you fear them? But Allah has more right that you should fear Him, if you are believers” (At-Tawbah 13). This was the strong ‘aqidah that Abu Mansur inspired his brothers with. His group rallied around him and they all pledged to fight the PKK to the death. They fought valiantly days on end despite heavy aerial bombardment, and continued to do so until Abu Mansur was given strict orders to withdraw his group and consolidate his forces in preparation for the Crusaders’ anticipated campaign against Manbij. After relocating to Manbij, Abu Mansur separated himself from his family in Sham in order to dedicate his time to fighting the enemies of Allah. He would say, “Allah will suffice them for me. He is more merciful towards them than me,” demonstrating his strong level of tawakkul and his sincerity in carrying out his duty. Thus, Abu Mansur sacrificed the company of everyone who was precious to him to help establish and defend this khilafah, and on the 17th of Shawwal 1437 in the city of Manbij, he sacrificed his own soul, as a piece shrapnel struck him and tore his chest open, bringing him what he had long awaited – shahadah in the path of Allah. Therefore, O lions of the Ummah, and those living in Australia in particular, follow the path of these righteous souls for there is no other path. The Khilafah has called for you to mobilize from your dens to alleviate the pain afflicting the hearts of the Muslims by striking the kuffar in their homelands. It is only from the hikmah of Allah that he has scattered you around the earth and in the various lands of the Crusaders to see which of you are best in deeds. So here before you are the doors of jihad – unhinged, and in their lands! Light the ground beneath them aflame and scorch them with terror. Kill them on the streets of Brunswick, Broadmeadows, Bankstown, and Bondi. Kill them at the MCG, the SCG, the Opera House, and even in their backyards. Stab them, shoot them, poison them, and run them down with your vehicles. Kill them wherever you find them until the hollowness of their arrogance is filled with terror and they find themselves on their knees with their backs broken under the weight of regret for having waged a war against the believers, and by Allah’s will, and then through your sacrifices, this Ummah will be victorious. “And Our word has already preceded for Our servants, the messengers, [that] indeed, they would be those given victory and [that] indeed, our soldiers will be those who overcome” (As-Saffat 171-173).