As the soldiers of the Khilafah continue waging war on the forces of kufr, we take a glimpse at a number of recent operations conducted by the mujahidin of the Islamic State that have succeeded in expanding the territory of the Khilafah, or terrorizing, massacring, and humiliating the enemies of Allah. These operations are merely a selection of the numerous operations that the Islamic State has conducted on various fronts across many regions over the course of the last few weeks. Barakah Wilayah The soldiers of the Khilafah took control of vast territory, including a number of villages south of the city of Shaddadi, where they succeeded in killing more than 124 murtaddin and wounding dozens of others, in addition to taking their weapons and vehicles as ghanimah. This rapid assault, which lasted only a few hours, brought the mujahidin closer to the city of Shaddadi. This occurred when the soldiers of the Islamic State carried out a wide scale assault on locations of the murtadd PKK, close to the city of Shaddadi, which caused a breakdown in the ranks of the murtaddin after only two hours from the time clashes erupted. The assault led to the mujahidin taking control of several villages around the city. The Islamic State soldiers began with an assault on the 20th of Dhul-Qa’dah, using heavy weapons to pound the positions of the murtadd PKK in the village of Kashkash Jubur, wherein the murtaddin had fortified themselves, which forced them to flee the village. An assault unit of the Islamic State then entered. After combing the area, they secured their control of the village. The soldiers of the Khilafah continued their advance and succeeded in entering the southern section of the village of ‘Azzawi, while inghimasi groups simultaneously cut off the roads which connect the village to the city of Shaddadi and were being used by the murtaddin. One group of inghimasiyyin entered from the side of Hammadat, towards the village of Shaykh ‘Uthman, situated southwest of Shaddadi. Meanwhile, a second group of inghimasiyyin entered the village of ‘Adlah, the gateway to Shadadi from its southern side. After cutting off the roads and surrounding the murtaddin in the village of ‘Azzawi, the istishhadi brother, Abu Mus’ab Suwaydan, targeted a gathering close to the enemy’s position at the school, which was taken as their second defensive line away from the village. This resulted in the killing and wounding of many within their ranks. To the west of Shaddadi, the istishhadi brother Abu Yunus Harijah proceeded ahead of an assault unit, detonating his explosive vehicle on a gathering of the murtadd PKK in the village of Hammadat, killing and wounding a number of murtaddin. This led to the mujahidin assault unit taking control of the village. In the area of Tallat Safiyyah, situated west of the village of Kashkash Jubur and where the murtaddin had stationed themselves in heavily fortified positions, a group of inghimasiyyin stormed their positions and the murtaddin turned and fled without any confrontation. Allah granted victory to the soldiers of the Islamic State as they broke through the front line of defense of the PKK murtaddin in less than two hours, causing a breakdown in the ranks of the murtaddin. This was followed by an attack by the mujahidin, whereby they penetrated deep within the territory of the murtaddin. They proceeded to assault the villages of Shaykh ‘Uthman and ‘Adlah, which represented a great threat to the murtaddin who had already started gathering their forces in the desert, close to the village of ‘Azzawiyyah, north of Tallat Safiyyah. While they were gathering forces, the istishhadi brother Abu Qudamah Hatlah embarked, first chasing them down as they attempted to flee, then detonating his explosive vehicle in their midst. What then followed was a huge collapse in morale within the ranks of the PKK. Fearing this collapse and the arrival of the soldiers of the Khilafah to the city of Shaddadi, the Crusaders rushed to send their warplanes, dispatching A10s, B52s, F16s, and unmanned Predator drones, which then began conducting dozens of systematic airstrikes on the villages taken by the mujahidin, and completely destroying some of the villages, particularly the village of Kashkash Zayyanat. This forced the mujahidin to withdraw from some of the villages that they had previously entered. The soldiers of the Islamic State took advantage of their ability to transfer the battle from one area to another, maneuvering to avoid the warplanes. In this manner, they were able to attack an area, stop, and then maneuver and attack an alternate area, dispersing the effects of the Crusader warplanes. The soldiers of the Khilafah also assaulted the village of Albu Salman, west of Shaddadi. The assault began with an istishhadi brother setting out towards a gathering of murtaddin, sending them fleeing from the village. The istishhadi brother continued pursuing the murtaddin, chasing them, but returned shortly after without needing to detonate his explosive vehicle as all of the murtaddin had fled. The mujahidin then took control of the village, taking as ghanimah a 4-wheel drive vehicle mounted with a 14.5mm machine gun, an ammunition-filled truck, and a hummer. Additionally, the soldiers of the Khilafah conducted a raid on a group of murtaddin in the village of ‘Inad, close to Shaddadi. The istishhadi brother Abul-Bara Muhasan advanced towards them, detonating his explosive vehicle in the midst of their vehicles parked next to one of their barracks in the village, destroying their barracks and all those inside. These operations resulted in the killing of around 124 murtaddin and the wounding of dozens of others. The soldiers of the Khilafah, as a result of their battles in the village of ‘Azzawi, also succeeded in capturing three of the murtaddin. Halab Wilayah On the 15th of Dhul-Qa’dah, in a second special operation targeting the Crusaders and murtadd PKK in the housing area of the Faruq Dam, which is considered a heavily fortified barracks for the Americans, as well as the location of their military operations room from where they supervise the battles around Manbij, a group consisting of 5 inghimasiyyin of the Khilafah assaulted the enemy, clashing with the murtaddin inside. The assault began at Fajr and continued until ‘Asr of the same day. During the course of the attack, American warplanes intervened, carrying out a number of airstrikes in support of the murtaddin. There was no way to credibly verify the extent of losses incurred by the murtaddin as a result of the assault. The area of the Faruq Dam had witnessed a similar attack on the 7th of Dhul-Qa’dah, when 7 inghimasiyyin conducted an attack that resulted in the killing and wounding of 41 PKK fighters and American soldiers. On the same day, 4 soldiers of the Khilafah carried out an inghimasi assault on locations of the PKK murtaddin in the village of ‘Imarah, north of the city of Manbij. Fierce clashes ensued, during which the inghimasi brothers used light weapons and hand grenades, killing an American Crusader and 6 murtaddin of the PKK. In addition to that, 46 murtaddin were killed and 22 were wounded, while a number of their vehicles were destroyed on the 19th of Dhul-Qa’dah after they stumbled into a minefield, northwest of the city of Manbij, following an attack on their positions south of the city. The following day, the murtaddin of the PKK also suffered additional losses when their positions, near the town of al-Khafsah, close to Manbij, were struck by 4 istishhadi operations, the last of which was on the 25th of Dhul- Qa’dah, which resulted in the killing and wounding of nearly 70 of them. South Baghdad Wilayah On the 25th of Dhul-Qa’dah, a number of Islamic State soldiers carried out an attack on a large group of Rafidi Mobilization fighters in the area of Karbala. The 4 mujahidin were wearing explosive belts and carrying light weapons and hand grenades when they assaulted a gathering of murtaddin in the city of ‘Ayn at-Tamr, west of Karbala. They clashed with them and succeeded in killing no less than 100 of them, while wounding dozens more. Thereafter, the inghimasi brothers succeeded in taking control of a neighborhood inside the city, clashing with members of the Rafidi Mobilization for a duration of 5 continuous hours. This was followed by 3 of the inghimasi brothers detonating their explosive belts amid a group of Rafidah, killing and injuring many of them. The fourth brother was killed as a result of the firefight, and we ask Allah to accept all of them as shuhada. Anbar Wilayah An American contractor was killed and 2 others were wounded on the 18th of Dhul-Qa’dah as a result of an explosive device detonating against them, south of the city of Ramadi. Media outlets reported that the district commissioner of Ramadi, the murtadd Ibrahim al-‘Awsaj said, “An American contractor was killed while another was afflicted with wounds as a result of them attempting to defuse an explosive device in the area of Mal’ab, south of Ramadi.” In that context, the British Ambassador to Baghdad announced that same day that a British contractor was killed in the city of Ramadi as he was attempting to remove an explosive device that the soldiers of the Khilafah had planted. It was also mentioned that the Americans and the Briton were employees of the company Janus Global Operations, which specializes in the removal of mines. The company has a contract with the Rafidi government, which involves the removal of mines planted by the soldiers of the Khilafah during the battle of Ramadi. These mines played a major role in causing mass casualties and losses within the ranks of the Rafidah. Dijlah Wilayah Fierce battles continued to be waged between the soldiers of the Islamic State and the Rafidi army close to the two cities of Qayyarah and Shirqat, in which the soldiers of the Khilafah succeeded in afflicting heavy losses on the murtaddin in both personnel and equipment. Hundreds were killed, while more than 70 vehicles of various types were destroyed, including 4 Abrams tanks. The Rafidi army was plagued with heavy losses as a result of the attacks mounted by the soldiers of the Islamic State on their positions near the city of Qayyarah on the 12th of Dhul- Qa’dah, where dozens of murtaddin were killed and 5 vehicles, 4 hummers, a Cougar APC, a BMP, 5 other personnel carriers, and 2 military barracks were all destroyed. The soldiers of the Islamic State extended their operations against the Rafidi army and their militias and launched 3 attacks, consisting of 5 istishhadi soldiers of the Khilafah, as they struck the positions of the murtaddin both south and southwest of Shirqat. This resulted in the killing and wounding of several of them, as well as the destruction of 27 vehicles, which included personnel carriers and other vehicles mounted with machine guns. On the 19th of Dhul-Qa’dah, American Crusader warplanes, aided by their artillery units stationed at Qayyarah Airbase, launched a campaign of air raids on the city of Qayyarah, supported by additional air raids from combat helicopters belonging to the Rafidi government. Due to this, and while benefiting from the air and artillery bombardment, the Rafidi army succeeded in entering and taking control of the city. Meanwhile, the soldiers of the Islamic State succeeded in damaging 4 Abrams tanks, destroying 16 hummers, a bulldozer, a Cougar armored personnel carrier, and various types of armored vehicles, while also damaging another armored personnel carrier on the outskirts of the city of Qayyarah. Additionally, several members of the Rafidi army and their militias were killed and wounded. On the 23rd of Dhul-Qa’dah, the losses of the Rafidi army were further increased as a result of an attack initiated by the mujahidin, consisting of 4 istishhadi operations that struck the positions of the Rafidah, southwest of Shirqat. This was followed by 3 istishhadi operations carried out on the 24th of Dhul-Qa’dah in the villages of Malihah and ‘Ubayd as-Sayil and close to the junction of Hadar. These istishhadi attacks resulted in the killing of hundreds of members of the Rafidi army and its militias, in addition to many of their vehicles being destroyed. Tarabulus Wilayah Violent battles continue to rage between the soldiers of the Islamic State and the murtadd militia of the Government of National Accord, supported by America. The steep quantity of those killed and wounded among the murtaddin has led to the consumption of much of their manpower, while exhausting much of their capabilities. On the 12th of Dhul-Qa’dah, the city of Sirte witnessed fierce clashes, coupled with 2 istishhadi operations. In a statement it had released, the media office of Tarabulus Wilayah mentioned that fierce confrontations took place between the mujahidin and the murtaddin in the neighborhood of Ithnayn. During the clashes, two istishhadiyyin succeeded in reaching the American-backed murtaddin and detonated their explosive vehicles in their midst. This resulted in the killing and wounding of more than 70 murtaddin from the Government of National Accord, while additionally destroying a tank, a personnel carrier, 2 armored vehicles, and a number of 4-wheel drive vehicles. The losses suffered by the murtadd militia of the Government of National Accord was not limited to just that, as more than 40 fighters of the murtaddin were killed on the 14th of Dhul- Qa’dah as a result of 2 istishhadi brothers storming their positions in the area of Thuhayr, west of the city of Sirte. ‘Adan Abyan Wilayah The soldiers of the Islamic State, on the 25th of Dhul-Qa’dah, targeted a recruitment center belonging to the taghut army of ‘Abd Rabbuh Mansur Hadi in Aden, in the southern part of the country, which resulted in the killing of 60 murtaddin. The media office of ‘Adan Abyan Wilayah clarified that the istishhadi, Abu Sufyan al-‘Adani targeted a recruitment center belonging to the taghut government of Hadi, an ally of the murtadd Arab Coalition, in the area of Mansurah in ‘Adan. By the grace of Allah, he was able to breech the security checkpoints and circumvent the tight security measures that the murtaddin had imposed on the area, and succeeded in detonating his vehicle on the center. The media office of the wilayah added that the attack led to more than 60 murtaddin being killed and dozens being wounded. It is worth mentioning that this is not the first time the soldiers of the Islamic State have targeted the recruitment centers of the taghut Hadi. Previously, at the beginning of the month of Sha’ban, an istishhadi targeted a recruitment center in the area of Khawr Maksur, in the center of ‘Adan, killing and wounding roughly 100 murtaddin. East Asia The soldiers of the Khilafah in East Asia, on the 23rd of Dhul-Qa’dah, succeeded in freeing 30 prisoners, including several mujahidin, after they assaulted a prison in the city of Marawi. Amaq Agency was able to confirm that 30 soldiers of the Khilafah stormed the Marawi prison and succeeded, by the grace of Allah, in freeing 30 prisoners, including a number of soldiers of the Islamic State and their wives, and to Allah belongs all praise. As a result of the assault, the soldiers of the Islamic State managed to take light weapons as ghanimah, while also burning a Filipino Crusader police vehicle. Amaq Agency also added that those who carried out the assault, along with the freed prisoners, all arrived safely to their bases without suffering any injuries. Additionally, a number of soldiers from the Filipino Crusader army were killed and wounded due to clashes with the soldiers of the Khilafah on the Island of Basilan at the beginning of the month. The soldiers of the Khilafah likewise succeeded in hitting a warplane belonging to the Crusader army as it attempted to bomb the positions of the mujahidin. Somalia On the 14th of Dhul-Qa’dah, the soldiers of the Islamic State launched an assault on one of the positions of the African Coalition in the city of Mogadishu in Somalia. Amaq Agency reported that the assault targeted a barracks belonging to the African Coalition in the area of Arba’u, on the outskirts of the city of Mogadishu. The soldiers of the Islamic State had carried out two separate attacks on members of the murtadd Somali intelligence in the cities of Baidoa and Mogadishu earlier, during the month of Shawwal, which resulted in the killing and wounding of a number of murtaddin. Russia On the 14th of Dhul-Qa’dah, two soldiers of the Islamic State launched an attack on members of the Russian police force, west of Moscow, killing and wounding several of them. Amaq Agency reported that two soldiers of the Khilafah, ‘Uthman Mardalov and Salim Israilov attacked members of the Russian Crusader police force in the area of Balashikha, west of Moscow. The attack resulted in the killing and wounding of a number of them. The 2 brothers were killed when they came under gunfire from Russian security forces. May Allah accept them both as shuhada. It may have been the first attack of its kind in Moscow, but it was not however the first time that the Russian Crusader forces have been targeted. The Russian army has been the victim of a number of attacks by the mujahidin in Qawqaz Wilayah, which have killed and wounded several of their soldiers. These operations reflect a great challenge to the tawaghit and highlights huge flaws in their security apparatus, while refuting their claims of having defeated the mujahidin in Qawqaz. Additionally, the Russian forces, which entered the land of Sham in support of the Nusayri army in their fight against the Islamic State, have suffered both human and material losses, with one such case being that a Russian combat helicopter was shot down, killing 5 Russian military advisors in Hims Wilayah. Perhaps the most famous operation carried out by the soldiers of the Khilafah against Crusader Russia was the downing of one of their commercial airplanes, killing more than 220 Crusader Russians in Sinai Wilayah. It has been noted that the escalating frequency of Islamic State operations places more pressure on the Russian government and their followers, who are already suffering a huge financial crisis, especially after their involvement in providing air and ground support for the Nusayri regime.