As the soldiers of the Khilafah continue waging war on the forces of kufr, we take a glimpse at a number of recent operations conducted by the mujahidin of the Islamic State that have succeeded in expanding the territory of the Khilafah, or terrorizing, massacring, and humiliating the enemies of Allah. These operations are merely a selection of the numerous operations that the Islamic State has conducted on various fronts across many regions over the course of the last few weeks. Tarabulus Wilayah On the 26th of Dhul-Qa’dah, five istishhadi brothers succeeded yesterday in detonating their explosive vehicles on positions of the murtadd Government of National Accord’s militia in the city of Sirte, which resulted in the killing and wounding of hundreds, the destruction of four tanks, a BMP, and a number of armored vehicles mounted with machine guns. Meanwhile, a sixth istishhadi succeeded in detonating his explosive vehicle on the murtaddin’s rear positions in the area of Bu Hadi southeast of the city of Sirte. The operation resulted in the killing and wounding of dozens of murtaddin and the destruction of a number of their vehicles. On the 16th of Dhul-Hijjah, approximately 30 fighters belonging to the murtadd Government of National Accord’s militia were killed and 50 others were wounded, and a BTR armored vehicle was destroyed following fierce clashes with the soldiers of the Khilafah in the area east of the city of Sirte. Halab Wilayah On the 26th of Dhul-Qa’dah, our istishhadi brother Abu Mu’awiyah al-‘Iraqi set out towards a gathering of PKK murtaddin in the village of Tall Hawdhan south of the city of Manbij. He detonated his explosive vehicle in their midst, killing approximately 40 of them and injuring dozens more. On the 16th of Dhul-Qa’dah, approximately 60 American-vetted Sahwah fighters were killed and wounded and two of their 4-wheel drive vehicles mounted with American machine guns and a 57mm artillery cannon were destroyed when they fell into a minefield in an attempt to advance on the mujahidin’s positions in the villages of Jakkah and Talghar. This was after they had gathered approximately 40 vehicles, a number of Turkish army tanks, and more than 300 vetted Sahwah infantrymen, in addition to Crusader air support, only to retreat in defeat and humiliation, carrying away the corpses of their dead and licking their wounds. The mujahidin also succeeded in destroying a Turkish army tank after targeting a guided missile. This was followed by an istishhadi operation carried out by our brother Abu Mus’ab ash-Shami, who detonated his explosive vehicle in the midst of approximately 20 4-wheel drive vehicles and a number of murtadd infantrymen between the villages of East Tal’ar and West Tal’ar, turning them into a heap of scattered limbs. The mujahidin also detonated a series of explosive devices on those who survived as they attempted to flee. The event resulted in 38 murtaddin being killed and several more being injured, along with the destruction of 10 4-wheel drive vehicles. During the course of the following days, the soldiers of the Khilafah succeeded in driving out the vetted Sahwat from 8 villages east of the town Ra’i and taking control of them. They included the villages of Sandi, Shaw Kabirah, Shaw Saghirah, Rawdah, Athariyyah, Ayyubiyyah, Nahdah, and Muthminah. This occurred following a stealth advance which was punctuated by clashes with the murtaddin, who quickly fled in defeat. The mujahidin then continued their advance and captured the villages of West Tal’ar, East Tal’ar, and Kadrish after conducting stealth operations, in addition to taking control of the village of Sandarah, west of Ra’i in the northern countryside after driving out the vetted Sahwat and taking 4-wheel drive vehicles and a variety of weapons and ammo as ghanimah. Likewise, three inghimasiyyin succeeded in recapturing the village of Buhurtah west of Ra’i after killing a number of murtaddin. Hims Wilayah On the 27th of Dhul-Qa’dah, the soldiers of the Khilafah carried out an attack on the Nusayri army’s checkpoints located past Tallat as-Sawwanah near the area of Huwaysis towards the east of the wilayah. They captured 11 checkpoints, by Allah’s grace, following clashes in which several of the murtaddin were killed, and also took two 4-wheel drive vehicles as ghamimah, as well as a truck mounted with a 14.5mm machine gun, another mounted with a 37mm machine gun, an armored bulldozer, and a variety of weapons and ammo. Dayala Wilayah On the 29th of Dhul-Qa’dah, the soldiers of the Khilafah launched an attack with various types of weapons on a Rafidi Mobilization barracks in Mutaybijah in the area of ‘Adhim. Fierce clashes took place, during the course of which the mujahidin killed more than 50 murtaddin, injured dozens more, and took another two prisoner, in addition to burning 5 Hummers and a 4-wheel drive vehicle. They also captured a 4-wheel drive vehicle as ghanimah, as well as three 14.5mm machine guns, two 12.5mm machine guns, and a variety of weapons and ammo before returning safely back to their positions. Denmark On the 29th of Dhul-Qa’dah, a soldier of the Khilafah – our brother Mesa Hodzik – targeted the Crusader police in Copenhagen in an operation which he carried out in response to the calls to target the nations that are members of the Crusader coalition waging war against the Muslims. Sahil Wilayah On the 3rd of Dhul-Hijjah, three soldiers of the Khilafah set out towards a Nusayri checkpoint at the Arzunah Bridge in Tartus where our brother Abu Ahmad ash-Shami then detonated his explosive vehicle on the checkpoint, turning those present there into a heap of torn limbs. A security force then arrived to examine the area, and our istishhadi brothers Abu Ibrahim as-Sahili and Usamah al-‘Iraqi targeted them with their explosive jackets, killing and injuring dozens of murtaddin. Baghdad Wilayah On the 8th of Dhul-Hijjah, our istishhadi brothers Abu ‘Aishah al-‘Iraqi and Abu Suhayb al-Falluji succeeded in reaching a gathering of Rafidi mushrikin on Filastin Street in the middle of Baghdad where Abu ‘Aishah detonated his explosive belt in their midst. He was followed by Abu Suhayb, who detonated his explosive vehicle on those of them who survived the first attack. The two blessed attacks resulted in approximately 40 murtaddin being killed and approximately 60 others being wounded. Kenya On the 9th of Dhul-Hijjah, three sisters who pledged allegiance to the Islamic State – Umm Ma’bad, Umm Sa’d, and Umm Maysarah – attacked a police station in the city of Mombasa in support of the Islamic State, which is being targeted by the Crusader nations. The sisters entered the police station and attacked the personnel there with knives and a petrol bomb, injuring two Kenyan Crusader policemen before attaining shahadah when they were shot by the Crusader police. Khayr Wilayah On the 15th of Dhul-Hijjah, a unit of inghimasiyyin set out in the direction of the Nusayri army’s artillery battalion base southwest of the city of Khayr. They clashed with them using various types of weapons and the murtaddin fled in retreat from the artillery battalion base, leading to the complete capture of Mount Thardah, which overlooks the city’s military airbase. Just one day after the blessed operation, Islamic State air defense units shot down a Nusayri warplane in the city of Khayr after targeting it with antiaircraft guns. The plane was destroyed and its pilot, the Nusayri criminal Colonel ‘Ali Hamzah, was killed. Somalia On the 15th of Dhul-Hijjah, the soldiers of the Khilafah launched an assault on a police station and checkpoint in the city Qof Judud, towards the west of Somalia. America On the 15th of Dhul-Hijjah, a soldier of the Khilafah – our brother Dahir Adan – stabbed 10 kuffar in the state of Minnesota in response to the calls to target the citizens of the nations involved in the Crusader coalition. West Africa Wilayah On the 18th of Dhul-Hijjah, the soldiers of the Khilafah launched a fierce surprise attack on an African coalition convoy in the town of Malum Fatiri in Borno towards the northeast of Nigeria. The attack resulted in 40 Crusaders being killed and dozens more being injured, with those who remained alive fleeing in defeat, and the mujahidin seizing a large cache of weapons and equipment. Dimashq Wilayah On the 19th of Dhul-Hijjah, Islamic State air defense units shot down a Nusayri warplane that had carried out four airstrikes on the mujahidin’s locations at Mount Naqb as they were being attacked by the Sahwat. The plane crashed between Nusayri territory and the territory of the vetted Sahwah factions, who then handed the pilot over to Nusayri forces after he had ejected and landed in the area of Sarrah near Mount al-Isharah. The handover of the pilot to the Nusayri army came after the Nusayri army agreed to requests previously made by the vetted Sahwat through some middlemen from the “national reconciliation” for weapons and ammunition in order to replace what they’d lost as a result of the Islamic State’s attacks on their locations in East Qalamun in recent days. It’s become widely known that the Nusayri army as of late has been launching airstrikes on a near-daily basis targeting Islamic State positions in East Qalamun and also bombarding them with heavy artillery shortly after the Khilafah’s battles with the murtaddin. They have also, on several occasions, fired flares at night during the course of attacks launched by the soldiers of the Khilafah on these locations. Furat Wilayah On the 23rd of Dhul-Hijjah, a unit of Islamic State soldiers clashed with a joint force of Crusaders and murtaddin as they attempted to airdrop their forces using two American Chinook planes and four Apache helicopters on the road between Bayji and Hadithah near the village of Sakran. During the course of the clashes, the descending force fell into a field of mines planted by the soldiers of the Khilafah, and the clashes resulted in 10 murtaddin being killed and the joint force withdrawing in defeat.