When mentioning the obligation of jihad for His cause, Allah indicated that some people would have reservations towards this noble commandment. He said, “Fighting has been enjoined upon you while it contains that which you dislike” (Al-Baqarah 216). He then reminded the believers to place their trust in Him, by deferring to His infinite wisdom instead of relying upon their limited knowledge. “But perhaps you dislike a thing and it is good for you; and perhaps you love a thing and it is bad for you. And Allah knows, while you know not” (Al-Baqarah 216). He further taught them that if it were not for jihad, the world would be filled with corruption. “And if it were not for Allah curbing people by means of others, the earth would become corrupt, but Allah has much bounty for the creation” (Al-Baqarah 251). Yet despite the command to wage jihad, despite Allah’s assurance of the immense good it contains for us, despite the well-being of the earth being at stake, and even despite the countless virtues and rewards promised by Allah and His Messenger for the mujahid, the murabit, and especially the shahid, there would always continue to be “men” who would fail to live up to this lofty obligation. They would remain behind, making excuse after excuse, despite the clear signs placed before them, as if implying that jihad no longer exists. When this false insinuation had first reared its head during the life of the Prophet, he firmly refuted it, as Salamah Ibn Nufayl al-Kindi narrated, “I was sitting with Allah’s Messenger when a man said, ‘O Messenger of Allah, the people have humiliated their horses, have put down their swords, and have said, ‘There is no jihad, for the war has laid down its burdens.’’ So Allah’s Messenger turned his face towards him and said, ‘They have lied. The fighting has just begun, and there will not cease to be a people from my Ummah fighting upon the truth’” (Reported by an-Nasai). However, even this clear statement from the Prophet himself would make no difference to most of the qa’idin (those men who “sit back” instead of participating in jihad) and the murjifin (scaremongers). Instead, they would remain upon their misguided way of life, choosing to lay down their swords, whether because they were too busy chasing the Dunya, too cowardly to fight for the cause of Allah, or too blinded to recognize the obligation for which they will be held accountable. Regardless of their excuses and misguidance, and despite the multitudes who turned their backs on the very deed described by the Prophet as “the peak of Islam,” (Reported by Ibn Majah and at-Tirmidhi from Mu’adh Ibn Jabal), jihad against the enemies of Allah would continue. Allah would humiliate those who abandoned it, honor those who embarked upon it, and direct His sincere slaves to keep their swords unsheathed for His sake. ‘Aishah narrated, saying, “When Allah’s Messenger returned on the Day of the Trench, he put down his sword and bathed. Jibril, with dust covering his head, came to him and said, ‘You have laid down the sword? By Allah, I have not laid mine down.’ So Allah’s Messenger said, ‘Where to then?’ He said, ‘Over there,’ and gestured towards Bani Quraydhah.” She said, “Allah’s Messenger then set out for them” (Reported by al-Bukhari and Muslim). Thus, the Sunnah of the Prophet was to march forth and wage war against the enemies of Allah, not delaying for the sake of any distraction, even after having just endured a harsh siege that would become known as one of the most difficult episodes in the history of Islam. This was the clear guidance of the Prophet. So what is the matter with those men who claim to follow him but continue to remain behind, having laid down their swords, even watching passively as they are surpassed on occasion by the women of the Ummah?! Such was the case on “11 September 2016,” when three muwahhid sisters carried out a daring attack on a police station in Mombasa, Kenya, targeting the security forces of a Crusader nation, and doing so in support of the Islamic State after declaring bay’ah to the Khalifah. They thereby followed in the footsteps of Tashfeen Malik – the wife of Syed Rizwan Farook, his partner in the blessed operation against the Crusaders in San Bernardino, California1 – with all three sisters attaining shahadah after voluntarily shouldering a duty that Allah had placed on the shoulders of the men of the Ummah, the duty of fighting for the cause of Allah. The Sunnah of the Prophet directed its incitement for physical combat towards the men of the Ummah. Why, then, do so many men continue to neglect their duty? Why have they laid down their swords and armed themselves instead with one excuse after another for not fulfilling their obligation? Why have they dismounted their steeds of war and boarded the bandwagon of qa’idin busy chasing after the Dunya? And why have they sat back idly – if not cowardly – while the Ummah’s chaste, noble women, for whom jihad is a voluntary and righteous deed, stood in all their bravery to fulfill the duty of men?! In abandoning jihad, such men have placed themselves in the ranks of those described by Allah as fasiqin, and have been threatened with losing Allah’s guidance and receiving His punishment in its place. “Say, ‘If your fathers, your sons, your brothers, your wives, your relatives, the wealth which you have obtained, the commerce wherein you fear decline, and the dwellings with which you are pleased are more beloved to you than Allah and His Messenger and jihad in His cause, then wait until Allah executes His command. And Allah does not guide the fasiq people’” (At-Tawbah 24). Thus, it is necessary that they hasten to repent, and then hurl themselves into the midst of the battle by attacking the kuffar nearest to them. Let them follow the example of the lions who have preceded them by striking the Crusader citizens and interests wherever they are found in the West – as was ordered by Shaykh Abu Muhammad al-‘Adnani in several official addresses – especially as the Crusaders continue to wage war against Islam and the Muslims, never hesitating to commit more atrocities against the men, women, and children of the Khilafah. Those Muslims residing in the West, in particular, have an opportunity to terrorize the Crusaders themselves as well as the imams of kufr allied to the Crusaders.2 These murtadd imams have fabricated a false religion of apostasy from elements of democracy, nationalism, liberalism, pacifism, and pluralism, doing so in servitude of their Crusader masters. They have deceived hordes of people, who follow them on the path to eternal Hellfire. As such, one should not downplay the importance of targeting and eliminating the imams of kufr in the West, doing so in support of Allah’s religion. If, having witnessed the Ummah’s plight and seen its women rise up to defend it, one is still unable to find the motivation to push past his excuses and march forth for the cause of Allah, then he should question his iman and should fear that his doubts and hesitation stem from a hidden nifaq that he is not aware of within himself. “Those who believe in Allah and the Last Day would not ask permission of you to be excused from striving with their wealth and their lives. And Allah is Knowing of those who fear Him. Those who would ask permission of you are they who do not believe in Allah and the Last Day and whose hearts have doubted, and they, in their doubt, are hesitating” (At-Tawbah 44-45). If there are any men of this Ummah, who have not yet taken their stand against kufr by waging jihad for Allah’s cause and who truly care about fulfilling their duties to their Lord, they must march forth without delay. They can take their example from the countless thousands of men who have sacrificed themselves for Islam throughout the ages, or they can take a lesson from their courageous sisters. These men can learn what it means to be sincere to Allah by reading the last testament of their sisters in Kenya who have joined the ranks of the shuhada – we consider them so, and Allah is their judge. After opening by praising Allah, sending peace and blessings upon His Prophet, and declaring their bay’ah to the Khalifah, the martyred sisters said: “A Message to the Kuffar: We say to you, O filthy ones, ‘Indeed, we are disassociated from you and from whatever you worship other than Allah. We have denied you, and there has appeared between us and you animosity and hatred forever until you believe in Allah alone.’ By Allah, peace and security will only be wishes for you, especially when you’ve taken it upon yourselves to fight and oppress the true Muslims. You expect to live in peace while you kill us and fill your prisons with our brothers and sisters? Know that the Islamic State soldiers are everywhere and by Allah, we will take revenge. Even if it takes a while, we will take revenge.” After addressing the filthy Kenyan government – may Allah hasten the conquest of Kenya for the Soldiers of the Khilafah in Somalia – the sisters addressed their brothers and families, saying: “To our brothers in din: Get ready and march forth towards Jannah as wide as the heavens and earth.” “To our families: We know you’ll be shocked by our act, but know that Allah and His Messenger and jihad in His cause are more beloved to us than you and ourselves.” “The meeting place is Jannah.” “Your sisters: Umm Maysarah, Umm Ma’bad, Umm Sa’d.”