The rulings on those who refrain from making takfir of mushrikin who claim Islam and those who refrain from making takfir of Sahwah factions who claim jihad are important matters that should be addressed, as they are related to the matter of tawhid and iman, the heart and soul of the religion. Thus, one of the chief offices of the Khilafah – the Central Office Overseeing Shar’i Dawawin – addressed the issues in two memorandums, which will be quoted below. The memorandum on the ruling of those who refrain from making takfir of mushrikin who claim Islam begins by presenting two positions “both being incorrect due to excess on one hand and negligence on the other,” defining the term “asl ad-din” (the foundation of the religion) used in both as “that by which tawhid is established before the advent of the prophetic proof.” The first position presented was that “whoever refrains from making takfir of mushrikin who claim Islam, is a mushrik exactly like them, because making takfir of them is part of asl ad-din. So the refrainer is exactly like those who worship others besides Allah, and he is absolutely one of them in both name and ruling.” The second position presented after was that “takfir is not part of asl ad-din, but is one of its inferred requirements. So the one who refrains from making takfir of mushrikin who claim Islam, has not disbelieved until the hujjah (evidenced argument) is established against him, all shubuhat (doubts) are removed, and his tawil (misinterpretation) is eliminated.” The memorandum then explains that “the first claim implies a corrupt concept, because major shirk has a reality and description that, if actualized, designates the one who possesses it a mushrik. If we were to absolutely equate the one who refrains from takfir with the one who worships others besides Allah, then making takfir of the one who refrains from making takfir of the refrainer would be absolutely necessitated, since major shirk is not excused by ignorance and the refrainer (according to the first claim) is a mushrik exactly like the initial person [the mushrik worshiping others besides Allah]. And the one who refrains thereafter [from making takfir of the other refrainers in the chain] is also a mushrik [exactly like the initial person], and so on. This is the actual inference – not an imagined understanding – of this claim’s line of reasoning. This line of reasoning leads to making chain-takfir, an invalid bid’ah that can never be controlled and that originates from an incorrect understanding of the texts. This claim is rejected due to the invalidity of its inference.” The memorandum goes on to explain that “the second claim also implies a corrupt concept, as it makes takfir of the mushrikin like one of the masail khafiyyah (obscure issues), for which it is impossible to establish the hujjah and impossible to make takfir of the refrainer as long as he has some shubhah (doubt) or tawil. The essence of this claim is the annulment of an agreed upon nullifier of Islam. Whereas, the existence of shubhah is a passing matter that must be eliminated… As for making this passing matter a foundation upon which rulings are based, then this would result in the annulment of these rulings and the nullification of what it means to manifest the religion. This is in opposition to what is transmitted from the imams of the religion, including the imams of the Najdi da’wah.” The memorandum then explains that “it is wrong to use the terms asl (foundational basis) and lazim (required inference) with regards to the meaning of ‘la ilaha illallah’ and kufr bit-taghut in an argumentative manner. That is because doing so is a fruitless, invented assertion with which Allah did not burden us. Rather, multiple corrupt inferences necessarily result therefrom, like excluding certain matters established by the advent of the prophetic proof from being part of asl ad-din – in accordance with this definition – and thus excluding belief in the prophethood of Muhammad from asl ad-din! Likewise, it leads to disputation … regarding what is included in the meaning of asl ad-din and what is excluded from it.” The memorandum then quotes Shaykh Sulayman Ibn ‘Abdillah Ibn Muhammad Ibn ‘Abdil-Wahhab, who was asked about a similar issue, “regarding wala and bara,” if such were “from the meaning of ‘la ilaha illallah’ or from its inferred requirements?” Shaykh Sulayman responded, “The answer is to say that Allah knows best. But it is sufficient for a Muslim to know that Allah made it a duty upon him to take the mushrikin as enemies and to not take them as awliya, and He made it obligatory to love the believers and to take them as awliya. He made this an essential of iman, just as He negated the iman of whoever shows love to those who oppose Allah and His Messenger, even if they were their fathers, sons, brothers, or tribesmen. As for wala and bara being from the meaning of ‘la ilaha illallah’ or from its inferred requirements, then Allah did not burden us with researching this. He only burdened us with knowing that Allah made wala and bara a duty and obligation and that He obligated acting on the basis of wala and bara. This, undoubtedly, is what is obligatory and necessary. Thereafter, whoever knows whether wala and bara are from the meaning of ‘la ilaha illallah’ or from its inferred requirements, then knowing such is fine and an added benefit. But whoever does not know such, is not burdened to know. This is especially so if the argument or dispute over the matter leads to evil, conflict, and discord among the believers – those who upheld the obligations of iman, waged jihad for Allah’s sake, took the mushrikin as enemies, and took the Muslims as awliya. Therefore, remaining silent on such matters that lead to division is definitely obligatory. This is what is apparent to me. Nevertheless, the two sides are similar in meaning. And Allah knows best” (Ad-Durar as-Saniyyah). The memorandum then addresses another term, in addition to those mentioned before, stating that “it is unacceptable to use the term takfir al-‘adhir (takfir of the excuser) to describe the ruling of the one who refrains from making takfir of mushrikin who claim Islam, because it is an inaccurate term. While we reject ignorance as an excuse for major shirk, this innovated opinion (of excusing – for ignorance – those claimants of Islam who commit major shirk) does not necessitate that every excuser refrains from making takfir, as there are those of them who might consider ignorance an excuse, but who do indeed make takfir of the mushrikin because he considers the hujjah to have been established against them, so he is therefore not a refrainer. Likewise, refraining from making takfir of the mushrikin is not confined to the issue of excusing them due to their ignorance, as it is possible one might refrain from making takfir of them out of his arrogance, defiance, following of desires, or citing of general texts indicating the merits of ‘la ilaha illallah.’ So the term takfir al-‘adhir does not accurately describe the one who refrains from making takfir of the mushrikin, such a refrainer being the one whom the scholars meant by this nullifier.” The memorandum continues, stating, “The one who refrains from making takfir of mushrikin who claim Islam commits an agreed upon nullifier, but his kufr is based upon establishment of the proof, unlike the one who worships others besides Allah. Making takfir of the mushrikin is an issue established by apparent and numerous texts, which all people can understand. Establishing the argument thereof is by the Quran’s advent, by either it being conveyed to the people or them having the ability to reach it. Allah said, “Say, ‘What thing is greatest in witness?’ Say, ‘Allah is a witness between me and you, and this Quran has been inspired unto me that by it I might warn you and whomever it reaches’” (Al-An’am 19).” “The mujaddid Shaykh Muhammad Ibn ‘Abdil-Wahhab said, ‘Know that the evidences for making takfir of the otherwise righteous Muslim who commits shirk with Allah or sides with the mushrikin against the muwahaddin, even if he does not commit shirk, are more than one can compile from the speech of Allah,1 the words of His Messenger, and the statements of the scholars’ (Ad-Durar as-Saniyyah). Shaykh ‘Abdul-Latif Ibn ‘Abdir-Rahman Ibn Hasan said, ‘It should be known that the Book of Allah, the Sunnah of His Messenger, and the statements of the scholars are explicit, abundant, and manifest in making takfir of anyone who supplicates others besides Allah and calls upon them for something only Allah can do … The entire Quran demonstrates and confirms this in various manners and expressions that explain this and make note of it’ (Ad-Durar As-Saniyyah). Other scholars of the Najdi da’wah said, ‘The one who does not make takfir of the mushrikin has not accepted the teachings of the Quran to be true. The Quran has made takfir of the mushrikin and has ordered making takfir of them, taking them as enemies, and fighting against them’ (Ad-Durar As-Saniyyah).” “However, this matter could become somewhat obscure with regards to some mushrikin who claim Islam, due to the spread of ignorance, the weakness of da’wah, and the circulation of shubuhat. Here, the proof is established by demonstrating the clear texts evidencing the kufr of these mushrikin. If someone refrains after this clarification, he becomes a kafir. Shaykh Sulayman Ibn ‘Abdillah said, ‘If someone doubts their kufr or is ignorant of it, the evidences proving their kufr from the Book of Allah and the Sunnah of His Messenger are to be presented to him. After this, if he doubts or hesitates, then he is a kafir according to the ijma’ of the scholars, since the one who doubts the kufr of a kafir is himself a kafir’ (Ad-Durar as-Saniyyah).” “But if their matter becomes manifest by the religion mounting, its voice rising, and its da’wah being conveyed… then there is no consideration given to any shubhah that would suspend the legal ruling. This is what is known from the imams of guidance, like those of the Najdi da’wah who faced this issue and died upon goodness. Some of the imams of the da’wah said, ‘Whoever does not make takfir of the mushrikin of the Ottoman State and the grave worshipers like the people of Makkah and others who worship righteous people, who deviate from the tawhid of Allah to shirk, and who replace the Sunnah of His Messenger with heresies, then he is a kafir just like them, even if he hates their religion, despises them, and loves Islam and the Muslims. For the one who does not make takfir of the mushrikin has not accepted the teachings of the Quran to be true. The Quran has made takfir of the mushrikin and has ordered making takfir of them, taking them as enemies, and fighting against them’ (Ad-Durar as-Saniyyah).” This memorandum was followed by a second one, clarifying the ruling of those who refrain from making takfir of the Jawlani front, one of the Sahwah factions claiming jihad. The memorandum stated, “The Organization of al-Qa’idah in Syria (‘Jabhat an-Nusrah’) and those groups with it in the encampment of factions whom the Islamic State fights are parties forcefully resisting the implementation of Allah’s Shari’ah, parties who have assisted the apostates aiming at establishing a ‘democratic civil’ kufri state. They fight together in one trench against an Islamic state, which no one doubts rules by the Shari’ah, incite others to fight against it by all means, and strive to displace its authority from the land, thereby replacing the Shari’ah of Allah, which it upholds, with jahili rulings and man-made laws. All of this is done with the air cover of the Crusader campaign against the Islamic Khilafah. These nawaqid (nullifiers of Islam) and others have been committed by all of the factions who claim Shari’ah and jihad but have remained in the camp of the apostates who fight the army of the Khilafah. These factions claiming Shari’ah and jihad did not withdraw from the apostate camp and declare their disassociation from them and their kufr, rather, they joined their alliances and supported them…” “The Islamic State has manifested the ruling of the Shari’ah regarding these factions, leaving no room thereby for any doubters. The Islamic State manifested that these factions are apostate parties who have openly committed kufr and whose condition has become evident, in a way that establishes hujjah and severs any shubhah an ignorant person might have. This includes what is found in the memorandum released by the Delegated Committee… As such, it will not be accepted that any of our troops is found refraining from making takfir of the individuals from the parties who fight us and whom we fight over Allah’s Shari’ah. Any of the troops of the Islamic State who is found refraining from making takfir of these factions shall have his case referred to the amir of his division for the refrainer to be summoned and what was alleged against him be confirmed. The condition of these factions will be explained to him if he is ignorant thereof. Then, if he refrains from making takfir of these factions after the clarification, he will be transferred to the court for istitabah [for the court to demand the soldier’s repentance or otherwise – if he refuses to repent – for him to be punished for apostasy].” May Allah reward all those mujahid du’at who have carried out their duty in conveying the message of Islam and its teachings. Amin.