As the aircrafts and drones of the Crusader coalition continue to bomb and terrorize the Muslims of Iraq, Sham, Libya, and other wilayat of the Khilafah, their Muslim brothers and sisters all over the world read the news with aching pain as the Prophet said, “The believers, in their love, mercy, and sympathy, are like one single body. When one of the limbs suffers, the whole body responds to it with insomnia and fever” (Reported by al-Bukhari and Muslim from an-Nu’man Ibn Bashir). These Muslims realize that the Crusader leaders who give the orders to brutally bomb the Muslims don’t come from an abstract vacuum; rather, they come into power via the blessings of the constituency of their citizenry, those who partake in their democratic system or accept its results. These Muslims also realize that the huge costs associated with bombs dropped by these aircrafts and drones are largely financed through the tax money generated from the so-called “innocent civilians” of these democratic nations, those “civilians” who recognize the legitimacy of policies derived by their democracies, policies including the government spending of tax money on wars waged against Islam and the Muslims. Thus, there remains no doubt in the hearts of these Muslims that the destruction of lives and property in the wilayat of the Khilafah by Crusader jets and drones is to be directly blamed on the purported “power of the people,” i.e. the power of the socalled “innocent civilians” of the Crusader nations. Allah said, “Fight them; Allah will punish them by your hands and will disgrace them and give you victory over them and satisfy the breasts of a believing people and remove the fury in the believers’ hearts. And Allah turns in forgiveness to whom He wills; and Allah is Knowing and Wise” (At-Tawbah 14-15). He also said, “And fight against the mushrikin collectively as they fight against you collectively. And know that Allah is with the pious” (At-Tawbah 36). ‘Umar Ibn al-Khattab said, after being informed of a murder case, “If the people of San’a cooperated in his killing, I would have them all killed” (Reported by Malik). Thus, on the night of the 27th of Ramadan 1437, the Soldiers of the Khilafah in Bengal decided to send an inghimasi team of five shahadah knights to the Holey Artisan Bakery restaurant in Gulshan, Dhaka, in order to give the Crusaders a taste of their own medicine. With tawfiq from Allah, the inghimasi brothers were able to kill all the kuffar in the restaurant, kill and wound many of the murtadd Bengali soldiers, and hold the Crusader-owned restaurant under siege for almost 12 hours against hundreds of murtadd Bengali soldiers before achieving shahadah, walhamdulillah. We ask Allah to accept them as shuhada and inspire many more muwahhidin in Bengal and in other parts of the world through their deeds. Amin. After a careful survey of several potential targets, the Crusader-owned Holey Artisan Bakery restaurant was selected for this blessed operation because it was well known for being frequented by the citizens of Crusader countries and other kafir nations. It was a sinister place where the Crusaders would gather to drink alcohol and commit vices throughout the night, feeling secure from the wrath of Allah that was awaiting them. The night of the 27th of Ramadan was chosen because of the huge rewards that it could potentially bring to the mujahid brothers, as it may possibly be Laylat al-Qadr, the greatest night of the year. Allah said, “The Night of al-Qadr is better than a thousand months” (Al-Qadr 3). During the operation, the knights of shahadah did their utmost to distinguish and separate the Muslims from the kuffar (Crusaders, pagans, and apostates) present in the restaurant by asking the claimants of Islam very basic religious questions whose answers any Muslim youth or elderly would know. Those who proved their Islam were treated with respect and mercy and those who manifested their kufr were treated with harshness and severity in following the example of Allah’s Messenger and his companions, as Allah said, “Muhammad is the Messenger of Allah; and those with him are severe against the disbelievers, merciful among themselves” (Al-Fath 29). He also said, “O you who have believed, fight those kuffar near you and let them find harshness in you. And know that Allah is with the righteous” (At-Tawbah 123). The Gulshan attack wasn’t the first attack against the Crusaders by the Soldiers of the Khilafah in Bengal and it certainly will not be the last, bi idhnillah. Allah said, “And when the sacred months have passed, then kill the mushrikin wherever you find them and capture them and besiege them and sit in wait for them at every place of ambush. But if they should repent, establish prayer, and give zakah, let them [go] on their way. Indeed, Allah is Forgiving and Merciful” (At-Tawbah 5). Thus, let the Crusader nations know that as long as they fight the Islamic State, their citizens will not be able to enjoy any peace and safety in any part of Bengal, bi idhnillah, including the supposedly most “secured” zone therein. They will not be safe as long as a drop of blood remains in the bodies of the Soldiers of the Khilafah here, in shaallah. The mujahidin will continue discovering “security gaps and holes” and lay in ambush for the Crusaders wherever they can be found, bi idhnillah. The mujahidin will target expats, tourists, diplomats, garment buyers, missionaries, sports teams, and anyone else from the Crusader citizens to be found in Bengal until the land is purified from the Crusaders and all other kuffar and the law of Allah is established in the land, bi idhnillah. And whoever from the Crusaders is deluded enough to feel secure by the false promises of safety given to them by the impotent murtadd Bengali law enforcement agencies will soon pay a heavy price – bi idhnillah – for Cesare Tavella was just a warning, the Gulshan attack was just a glimpse, and what is yet to come by the permission of Allah will be worse and far more bitter. “And Allah is predominant over His affair, but most of the people do not know” (Yusuf 21). Abu Rahiq al-Bengali Abu Rahiq, leader of the five inghimasiyyin sent to terrorize the Crusaders in the Holey Artisan Bakery, was a close friend of Abu Jandal al-Bengali. Despite being raised in a secular murtadd family linked to the ruling taghut government of the Awami League, he was among the first muwahhidin in Bengal who pledged allegiance to the Islamic State as soon as the Khilafah was declared, walhamdulillah Although he was a relatively young brother, Abu Rahiq had all the qualities of a military commander within him, by the grace of Allah. He was nicknamed by his military commander as “one-man army” because of his bravery and his uncompromising baraah towards the kuffar. As soon as he was given the good news that he was selected for an inghimasi operation against the Crusaders, he immediately shouted “Allahu akbar” and fell into prostration out of happiness, thanking Allah for the great blessing and asking for acceptance. He was a very obedient and disciplined soldier. Abu Rahiq was a young man known for his piety and worship. He was always focused, busy with the dhikr of Allah. One would sense that his heart was always attached to his Lord and the Hereafter. During his training for the operation, he used to recite Quran daily and pray the night prayers regularly, despite the tiredness from the heavy workout session at night and the obligatory fast in the days of the blessed month of Ramadan. He used to get very moved by the famous Islamic State nashid “Qariban, Qariban” and would read the lyrics during the training period and say, “This is exactly what we will do to the Crusaders, bi idhnillah.” He was truthful to Allah in his words and deeds, so Allah was truthful to him. We consider him such, and Allah is his judge. May Allah accept his shahadah and inspire many more mujahidin through his words and deeds. Abu Muharib al-Bengali Abu Muharib was a young muwahhid who came from an affluent Bengali family and had the dunya at his feet. Although he was known for his lavish lifestyle among his peers before his return to his religion, he came to realize by the mercy of Allah that faith and guidance from Allah are the most important treasures for a believer in this world and not appearance, wealth, educational background, and other material criteria that people who are attached to this lowly world compete over, as the Prophet said, “Indeed Allah looks not at your appearances or wealth, but rather He looks at your hearts and deeds” (Reported by Muslim from Abu Hurayrah). After the declaration of the Khilafah and call to hijrah from the Islamic State leadership, Abu Muharib tried to perform hijrah to Sham and then to Libya but was unable to reach either land. Nevertheless, he got the reward for hijrah without actually performing it, as his steadfastness in jihad is a testimony to the sincerity of his intention, in shaallah. The Prophet said, “Whosoever endeavors to perform a good deed, but does not do it, then Allah writes it down with Himself as a completed good deed. And if he endeavors to perform it and completes it, then Allah writes it down with Himself as ten good deeds, to seven hundred fold, or to many more times multiplied” (Reported by al- Bukhari and Muslim from Ibn ‘Abbas). Before he joined the Soldiers of the Khilafah in Bengal, Abu Muharib’s father wanted to hand him the reins of his garments business and buy him a car. In addition, his relatives and associates began pressuring him to “settle down” and get married. However, Allah protected Abu Muharib from falling into the various temptations of the dunya. By the mercy of Allah alone, he was able to choose the eternal gardens of the Hereafter over the petty pleasures of this worldly life. Abu Muharib had a strong connection with his Lord as was evident from his regular dhikr and recitation of Quran. He was also very brave and was known for his patience throughout the training for the operation. As he was selected for the inghimasi operation, he chose his kunyah to be “Abu Muharib” because of his love and admiration for the mujahid brother Abu Muharib al-Muhajir, also known as “Jihadi John” in the Crusader news and media. He wanted to slaughter the Crusaders and the apostates like his brother “Jihadi John” who terrorized the kuffar of the world with his knife, alhamdulillah. He was truthful to Allah, so Allah was truthful to him and fulfilled his noble wish of terrorizing the kuffar of the East and the West before achieving shahadah. May Allah accept him and his deeds. Amin. Abu Salamah al-Bengali Abu Salamah was the youngest of the five inghimasiyyin that was selected for this blessed operation. He came from an affluent Bengali family, the majority of whom were murtaddin who opposed his religion, mocked it, and exerted their utmost to prevent him from manifesting it. After he left his family and performed hijrah to the Soldiers of the Khilafah in Bengal with the intention of jihad, his murtadd family sought help from the taghut government and put his picture out in the media in order to force him to return. However, that only increased Abu Salamah in his steadfastness and conviction, as Allah said, “Those to whom the people said, ‘Indeed, the people have gathered against you, so fear them.’ But it [merely] increased them in faith, and they said, ‘Sufficient for us is Allah, and [He is] the best Disposer of affairs’” (Al ‘Imran 173). During his training for the operation, Abu Salamah was known for his patience, obedience, and truthfulness. He never complained a bit, no matter how difficult the workout sessions or the living condition became during the training. He was very eager to fight the Crusaders who lead the war against the Islamic State. We ask Allah to accept him among the greatest shuhada. Amin. Abu ‘Umayr al-Bengali Abu ‘Umayr was known to be a soft-spoken, humble brother and yet well-known for his harshness towards the kuffar. Before taking part in this blessed inghimasi operation, Allah gave Abu ‘Umayr tawfiq to participate in several covert operations that involved targeting and killing Hindu priests, Christian missionaries, and other kuffar and murtaddin. He was a very dedicated mujahid, in addition to being a keen seeker of knowledge who would strive to study Quran and Hadith whenever he would get free time between his training and operations. May Allah accept him among the greatest shuhada and inspire many more mujahidin and seekers of knowledge to follow his footsteps. Amin. Abu Muslim al-Bengali Abu Muslim was a very loving and kind brother who was well known for his generosity, service to brothers, obedience, and noble manners with others. When the Khilafah was revived, he left the dunya behind him and joined the Soldiers of the Khilafah in Bengal. He was very serious about listening and obeying. He would ask forgiveness for mistakes he might have committed in obeying orders. He was very soft and easily moved. Whenever he attended any discussion of the religion, his eyes would fill with tears. His family did not teach him how to recite the Quran very well, which hurt him very much. Once, he even cried because of this in front of everyone and it was such that he could not stop his tears from flowing. He used to strive to perform every exercise required in training with diligence and never give up. As the training session occurred during the blessed month of Ramadan, he used to raise his hands at every iftar asking Allah to grant him thabat and shahadah during the planned battle. He was truthful to Allah, so Allah was truthful to him. We consider him such, and Allah is his judge. May Allah accept him among the greatest shuhada. Amin.