When considering a just terror operation,1 an ocean of thoughts might pour into one’s mind, clouding the ability to make a final decision. Whether in regards to the type of operation one seeks to conduct or the details of that operation, it is easy for someone to be defeated by doubt if they have not received proper guidance or training. Yet, one need not be a military expert or a martial arts master, or even own a gun or rifle in order to carry out a massacre or to kill and injure several disbelievers and terrorize an entire nation. A hardened resolve, some basic planning, and reliance on Allah for success are enough for a single mujahid to bring untold misery to the enemies of Allah, in shaallah. Knife Attacks Many people are often squeamish of the thought of plunging a sharp object into another person’s flesh. It is a discomfort caused by the untamed, inherent dislike for pain and death, especially after “modernization” distanced males from partaking in the slaughtering of livestock for food and the striking of the enemy in war. However, any such squirms and discomforts are never an excuse for abandoning jihad, as the All-Knowing and Most Wise said, “Fighting has been enjoined upon you while it contains that which you dislike. But perhaps you dislike a thing and it is good for you; and perhaps you love a thing and it is bad for you. And Allah knows, while you know not” (Al-Baqarah 216). In compliance with this and other verses on jihad, generations upon generations of mujahidin rose for the sake of Allah and struck the necks of the kuffar with their swords, severing limbs and piercing the fleshy meat of those who opposed Islam. “So when you meet those who disbelieve, strike their necks, until, when you have overwhelmed them with killing …” (Muhammad 4). The knife was a weapon with which the Sahabah were well acquainted. ‘Abdur-Razzaq as-San’ani reported in his musannaf that a dagger, a type of knife, was the weapon used by Muhammad Ibn Maslamah in the assassination of the Jewish taghut Ka’b Ibn al-Ashraf, whom Allah’s Messenger ordered be killed. One might ask why knives are a good option for an attack. Knives, though certainly not the only weapon for inflicting harm upon the kuffar, are widely available in every land and thus readily accessible. They are extremely easy to conceal and highly lethal, especially in the hands of someone who knows how to use them effectively. Also, due to their accessibility, were a person to conduct a campaign of knife attacks, he could dispose of his weapon after each use, finding no difficulty in acquiring another one. When choosing a knife, one should focus firstly on sharpness. He should then consider the strength of the blade and handle, and seek something reasonably sized for the job at hand. Also, it should not be too large, making it difficult to conceal, nor lacking a strong grip lest it be easily disarmed. Serrated or partially-serrated blades make for good combat knives. It is explicitly advised not to use kitchen knives, as their basic structure is not designed to handle the kind of vigorous application used for assassinations and slaughter. Something important that one should consider before acquiring a knife is to avoid troublesome knives, those that can cause harm to the user because of poor manufacturing. There are certain features that should be avoided when acquiring a knife. If it lacks a guard, which is a protruding piece of metal or other material between the blade and the handle, the wielder may be harmed during the operation, as this guard is to prevent one’s hand from sliding forward onto the blade when plunging it into a victim. Folding knives that do not feature a stable locking system should be avoided, for if enough resistance is met on the blade, the folding knife can collapse, cutting the wielder’s own hand. Knives that have a “lockback” or spine lock, which is a locking system on the spine of the handle, are not a good option, for if the person holding the knife squeezes too hard on the handle, the pressure might release the locking system, causing the blade to collapse when plunged into a target. The most reliable knives are fixed blade knives, where the handle and blade are crafted from a single piece of metal. This is characteristically the strongest kind of knife, since the blade extends into the handle without any moving parts. As for choosing a target, then this is just like hunting prey. When carrying out a knife operation, it is not advised to target very large gatherings or overly crowded areas, as this presents a disadvantage and only increases the likelihood of being prevented from achieving kills. Therefore, it is advised that when conducting an operation by oneself, the target should be a smaller crowd, particularly for the one strong in build or skillful in using a knife, as such attacks are proven to inflict terror. Alternatively, for one pursuing a prolonged campaign of terror, he may target lone victims. For example, the target could be a drunken kafir on a quiet road returning home from a night out, or the average kafir working his night shift, or someone walking alone in a public park or rural forested area, or someone by himself in an alley close to a night club or another place of debauchery, or even someone out for a walk in a quiet neighborhood. One should consider canals, riversides, and beaches. It may also help to carry a baton or some other kind of concealable blunt object, such as a baseball bat, to strike the victim’s head with, thereby immobilizing him before cutting his throat or stabbing him in other lethal areas to finish him off. Regarding where on the body the victim should be struck, then the objective here is to kill – so the strikes should be aimed at major organs, i.e. the heart, lungs, or main arteries, which run from head to toe along the inner parts of the body. These include the inner thigh, the groin area, and under the armpits, then extending up the neck. The windpipe can be cut easily by slicing the throat, which is in direct implementation of Allah’s command, “So when you meet those who disbelieve, strike their necks” (Muhammad 4). Due to the hardness of the skull, it is not advised to stab the head. This can risk breaking the knife or causing the blade to become stuck in the skull, thereby making it difficult to extract the weapon. Additionally, it should be stressed that the objective of a knife attack is to attain a reasonable kill count, while equally – if not more importantly – to inflict terror on the Crusader citizens of the land in which the operation is carried out. On this basis, the more gruesome the attack, the closer one comes to achieving the desired objective. Nevertheless, it is advised to not necessarily attempt to fully detach the head, as the absence of technique can cause a person to spend a long time attempting to do so, that is, unless the individual’s circumstances and capabilities allow for such. Simply cutting the throat, just as one would slaughter a sheep, is sufficient. When attacking a victim wearing leather, jeans, or similarly tough material, then one should avoid striking the clothed areas. Instead, he should try to strike the exposed skin of the neck, etc. However, if very necessary, a strike with enough force should clear the clothing and penetrate the skin. The psyche of most living creatures, when they perceive a threat, is explained in the concept of “fight or flight.” This practically means that once the assault is initiated, though the target may be injured, he may still attempt to resist. A swift slice across the face should quickly subdue them, as very few people will continue to fight once the smell, feel, and sight of blood becomes apparent. If the target is alone, the aim should be to incapacitate him as quickly and as silently as possible. This should be followed up with slitting his throat. Lest the operation be mistaken for one of the many random acts of violence that plague the West, it is essential to leave some kind of evidence or insignia identifying the motive and allegiance to the Khalifah, even if it is something as simple as a note pinned or attached to the victim’s body, or a final testament if the operation will be of a nature where the expected outcome is one’s shahadah. The overall objective of any just terror operation is to bring horror and misery to the enemies of Allah, and to remind them that their efforts to wage war against Islam and the Muslims will only lead to more and more mujahidin appearing in their very midst, ready to strike them mercilessly on their own soil. So, “Let them find harshness in you” (At-Tawbah 123). And remember that Allah’s Messenger said, “Never shall the kafir and his killer be united in the Fire” (Reported by Muslim from Abu Hurayrah).