In the book of Allah, there are two verses, the contemplation and implementation of which none whom Allah has blessed forsakes, except that doing so will cause him regret in the Dunya and the Akhirah. Allah said, “And [remember] when your Lord proclaimed, ‘If you are grateful, I will surely increase you [in favor]; but if you deny, indeed, My punishment is severe’” (Ibrahim 7). He also said, “And as for the favor of your Lord, then mention it” (Ad-Duha 11). Ar-Rabi’ (d. 65AH) said1 in interpreting His statement, “And [remember] when your Lord proclaimed, ‘If you are grateful, I will surely increase you [in favor],’” “Musa informed them of the message from his Lord that if they showed gratitude for His blessing He would increase them from His bounty, expand their provision, and make them conquer all peoples.” Sufyan ath-Thawri (d. 161AH) said, “‘If you are grateful’ for this blessing, recognizing that it is from Me, ‘I will surely increase you’ in your obedience to Me.” Qatadah (d. 118AH) said, “Allah promised that He will give those who ask Him and increase for those who show Him gratitude. Allah is a giver who loves those who show gratitude, so be grateful to Allah for His blessing.” Ja’far as-Sadiq (d. 148AH) said, “If Allah favors you with a blessing and you wish for it to remain and endure, then give much praise and thanks to Him for it.” It was reported that the Prophet said, “Whoever is inspired to show gratitude will not be denied an increase in blessings.” The Salaf interpreted the meaning of “blessing” in His statement “the blessing of your Lord” to refer to the Noble Quran, the prophethood of the Messenger, righteous deeds, and the attainment of good. Thus, it encompasses the blessings of the Dunya and the Akhirah. The greatest of Allah’s blessings upon the human being, however, is his guidance to Islam, for without this blessing (the blessing of salamah, meaning sincerity, and istislam, meaning submission to Allah) his chest would be constricted, his life would be filled with depression, and he would strive in deviance. Thereafter, Allah will neither speak to him on the Day of Judgment, nor look at him, nor purify him, and he would have a tormenting punishment, losing thereby both the Dunya and the Akhirah, and that is the clear loss. As for the blessing of the Jama’ah, the blessing of succession to authority in the land, the blessing of consolidation for the religion, then without this, the individual is overpowered and afflicted with trials and calamities until the wolves devour him and he then dies a death of Jahiliyyah, and Allah’s refuge is sought. As for His statement, “then mention it,” ‘Umar Ibn ‘Abdil-‘ Aziz (d. 101AH) said, “Mentioning a blessing is a part of being grateful.” Al-Jariri (d. 144AH) and Yahya Ibn Sa’id (d. 143AH) said, “It used to be said that counting blessings was a part of being grateful.’” Qatadah (d. 118AH) said, “Spreading good news of a blessing is part of being grateful for it.” Al-Fudayl Ibn ‘Iyad (d. 187AH) said, “It used to be said that talking about a blessing was part of being grateful for it.” Al-Hasan Ibn ‘Ali said, “If you acquire good, then tell your brothers.” Abu Nadrah (d. 108AH) said, “The Muslims used to consider that speaking about a blessing was part of being grateful for it.” Ibn Abil-Hawari said, “Al-Fudayl Ibn ‘Iyad and Sufyān Ibn ‘Uyaynah (d. 199AH) sat one night until morning mentioning their blessings. Sufyan kept saying, ‘Allah has blessed us in such-and-such. Allah has blessed us in such-and-such. He has done such-and-such for us. He has done such-and-such for us.’” It was reported that the Prophet said, “Whoever does not show gratitude for what is little, has not shown gratitude for what is much. And whoever does not thank the people, has not thanked Allah. Mentioning Allah’s blessing is a part of gratefulness, and to abandon doing so is from ungratefulness. The Jama’ah is a mercy, and discord is a torment,” and, “Whoever is granted a blessing and makes mention of it has shown gratitude for it. If he conceals it, then he is ungrateful for it,” and, “Whoever is given a gift and finds something he can give, then let him give it as a reward. If he cannot find anything to give, then let him praise the giver, for whoever praises him has shown gratitude for the gift and whoever conceals it is ungrateful for it.” Allahu akbar! How much does the muwahhid mujahid have to show of gratitude towards his Lord for having blessed him with Islam and the Jama’ah! If not for Allah, he would be worshiping the tawaghit of the palaces and graveyards. If not for Allah, he would be following the scholars of the tawaghit and the du’at of the Jahmiyyah. If not for Allah, he would be an effeminate “male” having no protective jealousy for his Muslim sisters, a “male” sitting back along with those who have remained behind from jihad. If not for Allah, he would be residing in Dar al-Kufr among the apostate policemen, judges, informants, spies, soldiers, and other murtaddin, or among the Jews, the Christians, the Magians, the atheists, and other kuffar. And if not for Allah, he would be from among the bughat (armed rebels), or the Khawarij, or other groups of discord, bid’ah, and deviance. So praise be to Allah, who guided him to this, and he would never have been guided if Allah had not guided him. How difficult was the subjugation, the fitnah, and the affliction on the muwahhid mujahid before the blessing of the Jama’ah! There were no schools in which his children could study, no scholars from whom he could seek knowledge, no courts where he could litigate – for he is a muwahhid, rejecting the taghut courts – no dwellings in which he could live in peace and security, no lands in which he could seek refuge from the tawaghit, and no camps where he could train for war except in caves, jungles, or deserts, far from the obligation of the Jama’ah as understood by the Salaf, which is the Khilafah. If he were to manifest the Millah of Ibrahim back then among the kafirin and the murtaddin and call to it or strive to make preparations and wage jihad in order to terrorize the enemy, he would go to sleep not knowing if he would awaken in his home with his family or in a dark, underground dungeon. This is how his life was, and then Allah blessed him with the Jama’ah, and all praise is due to Allah with whose blessing all good things are achieved. “And remember when you were few and oppressed in the land, fearing that people might abduct you, but He sheltered you, supported you with His victory, and provided you with good things – that you might be grateful” (Al-Anfal 26). This blessing that he currently enjoys necessitates that he be grateful, both outwardly and inwardly, privately and publicly, among associates and strangers. He should not leave his family without reminding them of it, nor his companions without mentioning it, nor the common people without spreading its virtues among them. He should praise Allah, who decreed this blessing for him and bestowed it upon him, and exalt Him for it, for there is no power or might except by Allah, al-Hayy al-Qayyum. The muwahhid mujahid then should make du’a for the forerunners among the leaders and soldiers – particularly the shuhada among them – such as Shaykh Abu Mus’ab az-Zarqawi, Shaykh Abu Hamzah al-Muhajir, Shaykh Abu ‘Umar al-Baghdadi, Shaykh Abu Bakr al-‘Iraqi, Shaykh Abu ‘Abdir-Rahman al-Bilawi, Shaykh Abul-Mu’tazz al-Qurashi, Shaykh Abu ‘Ali al-Anbari, Shaykh ‘Umar ash-Shishani, and Shaykh Abu Muhammad al-‘Adnani – may Allah accept them all. We consider them so – and Allah is their judge – and we do not place anyone above Allah’s judgment. And whoever has not thanked the people has not thanked Allah. Rather, if a man were to stay up all night as the two imams, al-Fudayl and Sufyan had done – counting what Allah has blessed him with through the Khilafah and its impact – it would still be little. “And if you were to count the favors of Allah, you would not enumerate them. Indeed, mankind is most unjust and ungrateful” (Ibrahim 34). And from the blessings of Allah upon the muwahhid mujahid is that He made him live until this era, until Allah revived the Khilafah through his jihad and made him from among those who defend it, guarding its frontiers. Abul-‘Abbas Ibn Taymiyyah said, “And know – may Allah rectify you – that of the greatest blessings upon the one whom Allah wants good for is that He made him live until this era in which Allah revives the religion, the honor of the Muslims, and the standing of the believers and mujahidin, such that he resembles the first forerunners of the Muhajirin and the Ansar. Thus, whoever carries such out in this era will be from among those who followed them in righteousness, those whom Allah is pleased with and who are pleased with Him, and for whom He has prepared gardens beneath which rivers flow, to reside therein forever, and that is the great success. Thus it is only fitting for the believers that they thank Allah for this tribulation, which in reality is a noble gift from Allah, and for this trial, which contains an enormous blessing, so much so that – by Allah – if the first forerunners of the Muhajirin and the Ansar – such as Abu Bakr, ‘Umar, ‘Uthman, ‘Ali, and others besides them – were present in this era, from among their greatest deeds would be to wage jihad against this criminal people [the Tatars]. The opportunity to wage jihad against the likes of these invaders passes by no one except he who has lost his trade [with Allah], made a fool of himself, and been deprived of a tremendous share of the Dunya and the Akhirah” (Majmu’ al-Fatawa). So it is one blessing, and another, and another, and another. It is the blessing of Islam, the blessing of jama’ah, the blessing of jihad, and the blessing of shahadah, if Allah wills. From among the means of holding ingratitude for this blessing are dissociating from leadership, disobeying orders, holding secret conversations of spitefulness, spreading rumors, assuming the worst of others, belittling leaders, breaking covenants, striving to spread strife and discord, running away to Dar al-Kufr, being obsessed with one’s own personal ijtihadat, opinions, and whims, rebelling, abandoning the Muslim Jama’ah, and making takfir of the Muslim Jama’ah, its leadership, and its public. The leaders of the Islamic State have done a good job of warning against these destructive matters, as in the booklet “Wa’tasimu” by Shaykh Abu Mus’ab az-Zarqawi, and the treatise “Advice for the Soldiers of the Islamic State” and speech “The Paths to Victory,”2 both by Shaykh Abu Hamzah al-Muhajir. And whoever commits these dangerous deeds and persists upon his deviance should blame none but himself if Allah denies him the blessing of Islam as recompense for his ingratitude for the blessing of jama’ah. Allah said, “And whoever substitutes the favor of Allah after it has come to him – then indeed, Allah is severe in penalty” (Al-Baqarah 211). He also said, “If you are grateful, I will surely increase you [in favor]; but if you deny, indeed, My punishment is severe” (Ibrahim 7). And from the worst forms of showing ingratitude for a blessing is to attribute the blessing to oneself and to one’s own efforts. “And when adversity touches man, he calls upon Us; then when We bestow on him a favor from Us, he says, ‘I have only been given it because of [my] knowledge.’ Rather, it is a trial, but most of them do not know” (Az-Zumar 49). The leader of this great form of denial and the one to first initiate this evil practice is Qarun, whom Allah caused the earth to swallow along with his palace. As for the good practice, then it is for the slave to know that everything he enjoys of the blessings of the Dunya and the religion are from Allah alone – who has no partner – not from the slave’s power or might. It was reported that Dawud said, “My Lord, how could I possibly thank You when You are the one who bestows a blessing upon me, and then provide for me after the blessing, and then increase me with one blessing after another? The blessings are from You, O Lord, and being grateful is a blessing from You, so how could I ever possibly thank You, my Lord?” So Allah revealed to him, saying, “Now you have truly known me, O Dawud.” It was also reported that he said, “My Lord, how could I possibly thank You when I cannot achieve gratefulness except through Your blessing?” So Allah revealed to him, saying, “O Dawud, do you not know that the blessings you have are from Me?” He said, “Of course, my Lord.” He said, “Then, indeed, I am pleased with that from you as gratitude” (Imam Ahmad: Az-Zuhd). Contemplating two verses from the book of Allah will aid the slave in making this recognition and reality firm in his heart, the first being, “They consider it a favor to you that they have accepted Islam. Say, ‘Do not consider your Islam a favor to me. Rather, Allah has conferred favor upon you that He has guided you to the faith, if you should be truthful’” (Al-Hujurat 17), and the second, “We will remove any resentment from their breasts, as rivers flow beneath them. And they will say, ‘Praise to Allah, who has guided us to this; and we would never have been guided if Allah had not guided us. Certainly the messengers of our Lord had come with the truth.’ And they will be told, ‘This is Jannah, which you have inherited for what you used to do’” (Al-A’raf 43). O Allah, just as You have granted us the blessings of Islam and the Jama’ah in the Dunya, grant us the blessings of seeing You and attaining Your pleasure in the Akhirah. Amin.