All praise belongs to Allah, Lord of Might, Lord of the creation, Supporter of this religion. There is no god but Him. He grants the truth victory, even if after some time. And may blessings and peace be upon the Imam of the Messengers, and may Allah be pleased with his companions from the Ansar and the Muhajirin. To proceed: Allah said, “They want to extinguish the light of Allah with their mouths, but Allah refuses except to complete His light, even if the disbelievers hate it. He is the One who sent His Messenger with guidance and the religion of truth to make it prevail over all religion, even if the mushrikin despise such” (At-Tawbah 32-33). Thus, every Muslim must be certain that complete victory is coming, that Allah will honor this religion, that the future belongs to it, even if all nations rabidly contend against us, and that we shall definitely rule the earth by the might of Allah, the Powerful, the Strong. And whoever rejects or doubts that is nothing but one of the disbelieving fearmongers. Allah, the True King, said, “And We have written in the Zabur after previous revelation that the earth shall be inherited by My righteous slaves. Verily in that is a message to a worshiping people” (Al-Anbiya 105-106). The truthful and trusted prophet said, “This matter shall reach all that the night and day have reached, and Allah will not leave a house of mud or fur [i.e. dwellings in the city or desert] except that He will make this religion enter it, through glory or humiliation – glory by which Allah glorifies Islam and humiliation by which Allah humbles the disbelievers” (Reported by Ahmad). This was narrated by Tamim ad-Dari, who then said, “I recognized that in my own household. Those of them who accepted Islam received much good, honor, and glory. And those of them who remained in kufr were afflicted with humiliation, subservience, and the jizyah.” The people of tawhid must know that a ‘aqidah (creed) for which pure blood has been spilled and for which shuhada have fought, lived, and died will definitely be victorious. Its arrows will extend to strike the neck of every kafir. And it will enlighten the heart of every muwahhid. But we must all realize that the condition for victory is following the Prophet. If this adherence is present, victory shall come, and if it is absent, there shall be no victory. No other cause rivals it, as the scholars have explained. Ibnul-Qayyim said, “As such, victory and complete support is only for the people of complete iman. Allah said, ‘Indeed, We shall support Our messengers and those who believed, in the worldly life and on the day the witnesses rise’ (Ghafir 51), and He said, ‘So We empowered those who believed against their enemy, so they became victors’ (As-Saff 14). Thus, whoever is lacking in iman will also lack in his portion of victory and support” (Ighathat al-Lahfan). The Prophet also guided us – with great detail – to both the causes for victory and the hindrances to achieving it. Ibnul-Qayyim said, “Thus did he teach them the tactics of war and confronting the enemy, as well as the paths to victory and triumph – such that if they were to learn them, comprehend them, and maintain them as they should be maintained, there would never be an enemy that could stand against them” (I’lam al-Muwaqqi’in). And from the several causes for victory is tawhid. Allah said, “And they will not cease to fight you until they make you turn from your religion if they are able” (Al-Baqarah 217), and He said, “They only resented them because they believed in Allah, the Mighty, the Praised” (Al-Buruj 8). This is the reality, which all mujahidin must comprehend. The battle between the muwahhidin and the kafirin is fundamentally a battle of ‘aqidah, and Allah has confined this enmity to the religion. So the kafir, regardless of his kufr – whether he is a secularist, communist, Christian, or Jew – do no hate the muwahhidin except for their untainted iman. Any slogan raised for any battle between us and them, other than the slogan of religion, is an utter lie and deception, for the enmity of the kafir asli [a kafir who was never Muslim and does not claim to be Muslim, like the Jews, Christians, Hindus, and Buddhists] or the murtadd against the muwahhid mujahidin is never based in an economic or political motive. It is only a battle between kufr and iman, a battle of ‘aqidah, a matter of religion. We do not fight the Crusader occupation or the Arab apostates for the sake of land, but rather, we do so only in order to raise the word of Allah over the land. Likewise, they do not fight us for some disagreement they have with us regarding some financial gains. If that were the case, it would be easier for them and us to find some middle ground and compromise, but we will never allow the sweet rivers that flow in our hearts and pass through our veins to be polluted by the saline seas of their filthy creed and falsehood. The old colonialism was but a front for the Crusaders, just as it is today a front for the Jews and Christians. Indeed, the “Caesar of Rome” Bush has declared multiple times that, “It is a Crusade!” So why do people lie and deny this? If you know this, O mujahid, then you must not let the banners confuse you nor let the labels deceive you, just as you must purify your heart and ranks from impurities. Beware of letting any shirk or mushrik enter into your heart or ranks. Likewise, you must know that the presence of shirk in the ranks and hearts is an impediment to victory and is the quickest cause for defeat. Allah said, “And the dhalimin – they have no ally nor supporter” (Ash-Shura 8), and He said, “And the dhalimin have no supporters” (Al-Baqarah 270). The explanation of this is in His saying, “‘O my son, do not commit shirk with Allah. Indeed shirk is a great dhulm” (Luqman 13). Thereafter, know that purifying one’s intention for Allah is the most important of factors for victory and consolidation. Allah said, “He knew what was in their hearts, so He sent tranquility upon them and awarded them an imminent conquest” (Al-Fath 18), i.e. what was in their hearts of truthfulness, loyalty, and sincerity of intention by pledging allegiance to Allah, Lord of the creation. This verse thus indicates that sincerity of intention is a condition of consolidation, and that once sincerity is present, Allah will give the reward of conquest, victory, and consolidation. Allah said, “So whoever hopes to meet his Lord, then he must work righteous deeds and not commit shirk towards anyone in the worship of his Lord” (Al-Kahf 110). And Allah’s Messenger said, “Verily what I fear most for you is minor shirk” (Reported by Ahmad from Mahmud Ibn Labid). As such, the Prophet was very diligent in warning his companions of this threat – especially in jihad – lest the threat overtake their hearts. He focused even more, in this regards, on the commanders of jihad, saying, “Indeed, we, by Allah, do not appoint to this work anyone who requested it, nor anyone who hoped to attain it” (Reported by al-Bukhari and Muslim from Abu Musa al-Ash’ari). ‘Abdur-Rahman Ibn Samurah said that Allah’s Messenger said to him, “O ‘Abdur-Rahman Ibn Samurah, do not request a command position, for if you were given it not due to a request, you would be assisted [by Allah] in it. And if you were given it due to a request, you would be left alone to it” (Reported by al-Bukhari and Muslim). An-Nawawi said, “The scholars have said that the wisdom behind not appointing someone who has requested an appointment is that he would be left alone to it and have no assistance [from Allah], just as the hadith of ‘Abdur-Rahman Ibn Samurah clearly states. And if he has no assistance, then he is not suitable, and suitability is a requirement for the appointment” (Sharh Sahih Muslim). Likewise, a person could have a good history in his path towards Allah and jihad for Allah’s sake, having much good that only Allah knows, but he is not right for a command position, even if he thinks himself capable of handling it. Abu Dharr said, “I said, ‘O Messenger of Allah, why do you not employ me in a command position?’ So he put his hand on my shoulder and said, ‘O Abu Dharr, you are weak and this is a trust; and on Resurrection Day, it will be a disgrace and a source of regret’” (Reported by Muslim). However, it could become an obligation upon one of the good people to lead others, if he were to see that blood is being unjustly spilled and wealth is being unjustly taken, while he is able to put an end to it. Yusuf, the noble son of the noble Ya’qub, said, “Put me over the land’s treasury. Verily I am a knowledgeable guardian” (Yusuf 55). The second cause for victory is unity. Allah said, “And cling firmly to the rope of Allah altogether and do not become divided. And mention Allah’s blessing upon you, as you were enemies then He united your hearts, so you became – by His blessing – brothers” (Al ‘Imran 103). ‘Abdullah Ibn Mas’ud said said, “O people! You must stick to obedience and jama’ah, for verily that is the rope of Allah to which He ordered [we cling], and truly whatever you dislike in jama’ah is better for you than what you might love in division” (Ibn Battah: Al-Ibanat al-Kubra). This is undoubtedly correct, as Allah’s Messenger  said, “The Muslim’s heart will never have spite [for the truth] while having three traits: being sincere while performing deeds, dealing sincerely with those in authority,” in another narration, “obeying those in authority,” “and adhering to the Jama’ah of the Muslims, for indeed their supplication encompasses them completely” (Reported by Ibn Majah and others from Zayd Ibn Thabit). Regarding this, Ibnul-Qayyim mentioned that whoever is sincere in all of his deeds for Allah, and sincere in all of his dealings with the slaves of Allah, and adheres to the jama’ah with harmony and without discord, so that his heart becomes pure and clean, then he becomes an ally of Allah; and that whoever is not like that, then his heart will be filled with every evil defect (Madarij as-Salikin). So the foundation upon which Muslims must be is that of unity and not of division, of clinging firmly to the rope of Allah and not of deviance and discord. This unity will bring about glory, victory, and consolidation in this dunya, and in the Akhirah it will bring the brightening of faces and the raising of levels. It was reported that Ibn ‘Abbas commented on the tafsir of Allah’s words, “The day some faces will brighten and some faces will darken” (Al ‘Imran 106) that “the faces of Ahlus-Sunnah and the Jama’ah will brighten and the faces of the people of bid’ah and division will darken” (Tafsir Ibn Abi Hatim). And there is never any glory or victory that comes with division, even if our commander were the best of Allah’s creation on His land and the bravest of them. Such was Amirul-Muminin ‘Ali Ibn Abi Talib, as during his khilafah there was no person walking on earth better than him, yet, when the Ummah divided over him and a group rebelled against him, and later some of the Khawarij also rebelled, may Allah keep them far from us, he was completely unable to prepare even a single army to fight the disbelievers. Shaykhul-Islam Ibn Taymiyyah said during a discourse on the twelve imams claimed by the Rafidah, “For none amongst them had a sword to raise except ‘Ali Ibn Abi Talib, yet despite him having that, he was not able to invade the lands of the kuffar during his khilafah, nor was he able to conquer any city or kill any kafir. Rather, the Muslims occupied themselves with fighting each other, such that the kuffar from the mushrikin and Ahl al-Kitab in the east and in Sham, took advantage of this until – as it is said – they took some land from the Muslims” (Minhaj as-Sunnah). The Battle of al-Jamal is the most painful example of what results from dividing the ranks and disagreeing over leadership. In contrast, when the Year of Jama’ah came and the Ummah assembled in support of Mu’awiyah, he readied the armies, conquered lands, collected zakah, and distributed wealth. Yet no one disagrees that ‘Ali was more fearing of Allah, braver, wiser, and more just than Mu’awiyah, but all discord is evil. The Prophet said, “Whoever leaves obedience and parts from the Jama’ah then dies, has died a jahili death. And whoever fights under a blind banner, being angry for the sake of tribalism or calling to the call of tribalism, then is killed, his killing is a jahili killing” (Reported by Muslim from Abu Hurayrah). And he said, “Whoever sees from his amir something he dislikes, then he must be patient, for verily no one parts a hand span from the Jama’ah then dies, except that he dies a jahili death” (Reported by al-Bukhari and Muslim from Ibn ‘Abbas). And indeed, by Allah’s help and His praise, as long as our hearts are united upon an amir of whom we think well, repelling any claims and doubts raised against him, then by Allah, even if America came with all of its forces – rather with all of its men and women – to wage war against us, then indeed we shall be victorious. So be cautious, O soldiers of Allah, of anyone who seeks to divide your ranks.