Part 1: In the Sirah of the Prophet Allah sent His Messenger, Muhammad, as a mercy to the creation, and so he openly called the people to the path of truth and guidance. Whoever accepted was encompassed with this mercy, and whoever opposed it and resisted was fought and dealt with using severe brutality until this enemy submitted to the command of Allah. The Prophet’s Sirah contains the best evidence of this. Following the Prophet’s return from Badr, he ordered that the prisoner ‘Uqbah Ibn Abi Mu’it be killed in captivity, and this was because ‘Uqbah had been among the harshest of the people in harming Islam and the Muslims. Adh-Dhahabi said in the sirah he authored, “The Prophet killed ‘Uqbah Ibn Abi Mu’it in [the valley of ] ‘Irq adh-Dhubyah. When the Prophet ordered that he be killed, ‘Uqbah said, ‘Who will look after my sons, O Muhammad?’ He said, ‘Hellfire.’ ‘Asim Ibn Thabit Ibn Abil-Aqlah then killed him, and it was said that ‘Ali killed him.” In the Battle of Uhud, Allah’s Messenger ordered that the prisoner Abu ‘Azzah al-Jumahi be killed, and he was a man who had daughters. Ibn Kathir said, “No mushrik was taken prisoner except Abu ‘Azzah al-Jumahi, who was also among the prisoners on the day of Badr. The Prophet freed him without ransom [after Badr], and placed a condition on him that he not return to fighting him. When he was taken prisoner on the day of Uhud, Abu ‘Azzah said, ‘O Muhammad, free me for the sake of my daughters and I promise not to fight you.’ So Allah’s Messenger said to him, ‘I will not let you walk around in Makkah saying, ‘I deceived Muhammad twice.’’ He then gave the order and his neck was struck. Some scholars have mentioned that Allah’s Messenger said that day, ‘The believer is not stung from the same hole twice!’” (Al-Bidayah wan-Nihayah). These two prisoners were not in a position warranting that they be freed, ransomed, or shown mercy, for if this were to have occurred it would have had a negative effect on the Prophet’s reputation, as he made clear when he killed Abu ‘Azzah. Also, the Prophet would not leave one who harmed Islam and the Muslims safe within the confines of his home, even if his harm was through mere speech and incitement, as was the case with the Jew, Ka’b Ibn al-Ashraf. Ibn Ishaq said, “He incited against Allah’s Messenger, recited abusive poetry, and lamented those of Quraysh thrown into the well at Badr. Ka’b Ibn al-Ashraf then returned to Madinah and composed harassing poetry directed against Umm al-Fadl Bint al-Harith and later against other women of the Muslims” (Sirat Ibn Ishaq). At this point, the order was issued from Allah’s Messenger to eliminate this taghut; he then asked who was prepared to carry out the operation. Jabir Ibn ‘Abdillah narrates, “Allah’s Messenger said, ‘Who will deal with Ka’b Ibn al-Ashraf, for indeed he has harmed Allah and His Messenger?’ Muhammad Ibn Maslamah stood up and said, ‘O Messenger of Allah, would you like me to kill him?’ He said, ‘Yes’” (Reported by al-Bukhari and Muslim). Later, following the Battle of al-Ahzab, Allah’s Messenger headed for Bani Quraydhah in order to besiege them, as recompense for their breaking of their treaty with the Prophet. Allah’s judgment concerning them was that all their men were to be killed and their women and children enslaved. ‘Aishah narrates, “Sa’d [Ibn Mu’adh] was wounded on the day of the trench when a man from Quraysh called Ibn al-‘Ariqah shot him [with an arrow] hitting an artery in his arm. Hence, Allah’s Messenger set up a tent for Sa’d in the masjid to be close to him. When Allah’s Messenger came back from the trench, he put down his sword and bathed. Jibril, shaking the dust off his head, came to him and said, ‘You have laid down the sword? By Allah, we have not laid ours down. Set out for them.’ Allah’s Messenger said, ‘Where?’ Jibril pointed towards Bani Quraydhah. Allah’s Messenger then attacked them. They later surrendered to the judgment of Allah’s Messenger, and Allah’s Messenger referred the judgment concerning them to Sa’d. Sa’d said, ‘My judgment concerning them is that their fighters are to be killed, their women and children are to be enslaved, and their wealth is to be divided.’ ‘Urwah Ibn az-Zubayr said, ‘I was told that the Prophet said, ‘You have judged them by the judgment of Allah’’” (Reported by Muslim). And thus, brutality towards those traitors served as a beneficial remedy, and a lesson and a warning to others. Prior to that, the Prophet had expelled Bani an-Nadir from their homes and took their wealth as ghanimah after Allah revealed to him their plot to assassinate him while he was in their presence. It was not long before he set out, besieging them and waging war against them, with Allah then granting him victory over them. He also fought Bani Qaynuqa’ and besieged them and did the same with the Jews of Khaybar, fighting them and conquering their fortresses by force (Sirat Ibn Hisham). Allah’s Messenger likewise would not be silent concerning the right of those Muslims killed treacherously and unjustly, unlike the evil scholars who discourage the Muslims from rising up and taking revenge against those kuffar who kill them, spill their blood, and violate their women. Ibn Kathir said, “Al-Waqidi said, ‘In the month of Shawwal, the 6th year after the Hijrah, the detachment of Kurz Ibn Jabir al-Fihri was sent to the ‘Uraniyyin who killed the shepherd of Allah’s Messenger and herded away the camels.’” Anas narrated that a group of people from ‘Ukl and ‘Uraynah came to the Prophet openly manifesting Islam, and said, “O Prophet of Allah, indeed we are a people of livestock and not a people of agriculture.” They could not bear the nature of Madinah and had gotten ill. So the Prophet ordered that they be lent a number of camels and a shepherd, and ordered the group from ‘Ukl and ‘Uraynah to head out with the shepherd and drink the milk and urine of the camels. They set out, and when they reached the area of the lava field, they disbelieved after having embraced Islam, killed the Prophet’s shepherd, and herded away the camels. This then reached the Prophet, so he dispatched a party in their pursuit and gave them orders [on how to punish them]. So they melted their eyes with heated nails, cut off their hands, and left them in the area of the lava field until they died in that state (Reported by al-Bukhari and Muslim). This was the punishment done by Allah’s Messenger. Even though he had forbidden mutilation, taking retribution from these criminal apostates and their likes is something established in the religion. Thus, he did not let the killers of his shepherd go free. Rather, he sent a detachment to detain them and carry out the ruling of retribution on them. And during the conquest of Makkah (may Allah bring it back under the rule of the Muslims), Allah’s Messenger ordered for a number of individuals to be killed even if they were found clinging to the curtains of the Ka’bah. Anas narrated that the Prophet entered Makkah the year of the conquest wearing a helmet. When he took it off, a man came to him and said, “Ibn Khatal is clinging to the curtains of the Ka’bah.” He responded, “Kill him” (Reported by al-Bukhari and Muslim). Sa’d Ibn Abi Waqqas said, “On the day of the conquest of Makkah, Allah’s Messenger granted amnesty to all the people except four men and two women, saying, ‘Kill them, even if you find them clinging to the curtains of the Ka’bah’” (Reported by an-Nasai). This prophetic order was also due to their harming Islam and the Muslims. The curtains of the noble Ka’bah could not shield them from the law of the Lord of the creation after the severe kufr they had perpetrated with their hands and tongues. These evidences from the Sirah of the Messenger – and there are many others – do not negate from him the characteristic of compassion and mercy. Rather, these traits are in accordance with Allah’s words, “Muhammad is the Messenger of Allah; and those with him are severe against the disbelievers, merciful among themselves” (Fath 29). Allah’s Messenger carried out the command of Allah, who said, “O you who have believed, fight those disbelievers near you and let them find brutality in you” (At-Tawbah 123). Likewise, just as he is the prophet of mercy, he is also the prophet of slaughter. As for taking his compassion and mercy for the allies of Allah and applying it to the enemies of Allah, then this is the methodology of the taghut scholars who want the Muslims to compromise with their enemies. Rather, the taghut scholars want the Muslims to obey their enemies as much as possible. And if the Muslim rushes to massacre the enemies of Allah and does to them just as they have done to the Muslims, including killing and humiliating them, these devils hasten to denounce him, “warning” against the image of Islam and the Muslims being distorted. But of which “Islam” do they speak and what religion do they follow?! The religion of the taghut scholars is nothing but apostasy, which can only be cleansed by unsheathing the sword of Abu Bakr as-Siddiq. Part 2: In the History of the Rashid Khulafa The Sahabah were people with the softest of hearts, the best of them in morals and character, and the most sincere of them in da’wah, spreading the religion, and raising the banner of Islam. They were the most serious of people in holding tightly to the Sunnah of the Messenger in all matters. Amongst these matters, was his guidance in dealing with the kuffar during war. The Sahabah were severe against the kuffar, showing harshness to them by sword and by tongue, until they firmly established the religion, upheld the foundations of Islam, and raised the banner of tawhid. The foremost of them was Abu Bakr as-Siddiq, through whose steadfastness Allah fortified Islam when he remained determined to fight the murtaddin who resisted a single, clear-cut law of Islam – the obligation of paying zakah. He did not distinguish between them and those who returned to worshiping idols or those who followed false prophets. Instead, he organized brigades and dispatched squadrons, amongst these brigades being one led by the Unsheathed Sword of Allah, Khalid Ibn al-Walid. During the first assault against the murtaddin, Khalid managed to break the army of Tulayhah Ibn Khuwaylid al-Asadi and those who joined him from the Arab tribes. Khalid dispersed them and shattered their strength. As-Siddiq then sent a message to Khalid, telling him to make examples of them and to be severe in doing so. Ibn Kathir said, “Abu Bakr as-Siddiq wrote to Khalid Ibn al-Walid after it reached him that he had defeated Tulayhah and those with him, saying, ‘May Allah increase His blessings upon you. Fear Allah, for verily Allah is with those who fear Him and those who are righteous. Be stern in this matter and do not soften. Do not spare any of the mushrikin who have killed Muslims, rather make an example of them. Whomever you capture who has opposed Allah, thinking that he has done well, then kill him’” (Al-Bidayah wan-Nihayah). Indeed, the Unsheathed Sword of Allah executed the order. He went out, seeking any of those murtaddin from the dispersed, defeated army, and made examples of them, exacting vengeance on them. Ibn Kathir said, “So he spent one month, seeking revenge for the Muslims who were living amongst these tribes when the tribes apostatized. Some of them he burned with fire; others he smashed with stones; others he threw from atop the highest mountains. He did this so that any Arab murtadd who learned of their outcome might take heed.” These deeds terrorized those who remained of the murtaddin, as they began to hear of the news, such that some of them were quick to repent and abide by the Shari’ah, while others were stubborn and insisted upon war. And when a delegation from Buzakhah (a place in Bahrain, at that time home to the tribes of Asad, Ghatafan, and Tayy) came and requested peace with Abu Bakr as-Siddiq, promising to abide by all laws of Islam, he gave them the choice between a devastating war and a humiliating peace. Ibn Kathir said, “They then said, ‘O Khalifah of Allah’s Messenger, as for the devastating war, then we are well aware of it. But what is the humiliating peace?’ He said, ‘That all weapons and riding animals be taken from you, leaving you as people who follow the tails of camels, until Allah shows the Khalifah of His Prophet and the Believers a reason to pardon you; and that you will return what you took from us, and we will not return what we took from you; and that you bear witness that those who were killed from us are in Jannah, while those who were killed from you are in the Fire.’” This action of as-Siddiq was to humiliate those who waged war against Allah and His Messenger, making it clear to them the evil of their deeds and the enormity of their perpetrations. It also kept the Muslim Jama’ah safe from the apostates’ danger, by taking their weapons away from them after their repentance. His stipulating of these conditions was a manifestation of the honor of Islam and the Muslims, despite the war with the murtaddin not yet being over. There was another stance taken by as-Siddiq, this time regarding al-Fujaah as-Sulami, a murtadd who deceived the Muslims and warred with them, whose punishment was to be burned by fire. Ibn Kathir said, “Indeed, as-Siddiq burned al-Fujaah at Baqi’ in Madinah. The reason for that was that he came to him, claiming to be a Muslim, and asked him to prepare an army for him with which he would fight the people of apostasy. So he gave him what he needed for an army. When he set out [with his army, which consisted of those who followed him, after he killed the ten Muslims whom Abu Bakr dispatched with him], he would kill and take the wealth of any Muslim or murtadd he came across. When as-Siddiq heard of this, he sent an army against him and stopped him. Upon capturing him, Abu Bakr sent him to Baqi’, where his hands were tied behind his back and he was thrown into a fire while he was bound.” As for Yamamah (in eastern Arabia), then that is where the fiercest of battles were fought against the murtaddin, those who followed Musaylimah the Liar, and that is where the Sahabah exerted their utmost, until Allah made them overpower their enemies and they utterly destroyed them. Ibn Kathir said, “The total of those killed in the grounds of Yamamah and during the battle was nearly ten thousand fighters, and it has been said that it was twenty-one thousand. Of the Muslims, five or six hundred were killed.” Ibnul-Athir said, “A message from Abu Bakr reached Khalid, ordering that every pubescent and post-pubescent male be killed, but he had already agreed with their terms of surrender. Thus he kept to his word and did not betray his agreement” (Al-Kamil fit-Tarikh). If it were not for the terms to which Khalid Ibn al-Walid agreed with Banu Hanifah before Abu Bakr’s message reached him, he would have eradicated those who remained, and Allah knows best. In Bahrain, after al-‘Ala Ibn al-Hadrami massacred the murtaddin, their survivors fled in defeat. The Muslims pursued them to make examples of them, as the murtaddin boarded ships to cross the gulf. Ibn Kathir said, “Then the Muslims boarded ships, following those who were defeated, killing them at every outpost and by every road. Those who fled, or at least most of them, fled into the sea towards Darin (a seaport of Bahrain).” Here, the Muslims did not give the murtaddin a chance to catch their breaths or to escape. Instead, the Muslims resolved to pursue them by crossing the gulf in their ships. But when they realized this would delay their goal, al-‘Ala Ibn al-Hadrami decided to go forth with his army, relying on their Lord, seeking His aid. Ibn Kathir continued, “So they traversed the gulf, by Allah’s permission, walking along some soft sand covered by water, which did not sink their camels’ feet nor reach their steeds’ knees. The distance by boat was one day and one night. They crossed to the other shore, fought and defeated their enemy, took their spoils, then returned to the other side – to their original site. All of that occurred in a single day. They left no enemy alive, but managed to transport the [captive] women and children, livestock, and wealth along with them.” This was how the wars of riddah were conducted – tormenting and massacring the murtaddin until they returned to the command of Allah or were killed upon their riddah. After the war against the murtaddin, as-Siddiq aimed at starting the conquests of Iraq and Sham, as the murtaddin were nothing but a major obstacle in the path of jihad for Allah’s cause and in the path of spreading Islam unto the world. They are an obstacle necessary to remove, so that it becomes easier for the Ummah of Islam to call those nations who oppose it and to fight them over the religion of Allah. Later, in the Battle of Ullays (a village of Anbar) with the Magian Persians, the Unsheathed Sword of Allah swore that the river would run with their blood. Ibn Kathir said, “Khalid said, ‘O Allah! You have my pledge that, if You grant me victory over them, I will not leave any of them alive until I make their river run with their blood.’ Thereafter, Allah granted the Muslims victory over them. Khalid’s herald called out, ‘Capture them! Capture them! Do not kill anyone but those who refuse to be captured!’ So the captives were driven like cattle, and Khalid appointed some men to strike their necks by the river. This lasted for three days. Anyone who was brought had his neck struck by the river. The water kept flowing, but the blood settled. So one of the commanders said, ‘The river will not run with their blood until you force the water to the blood, so that the blood will flow with it and you will have kept your oath.’ So they forced the water towards the blood and the river flowed as if it were pure blood. That is why it is called the River of Blood to this day … And the number of those killed was seventy thousand.” And during one of the campaigns of Khalid Ibn al- Walid against the Romans, one of their leaders – Mahan – asked to meet him to convince Khalid to turn back. The shocking response from Khalid put a sudden end to Mahan’s idea. Ibn Kathir said, “Mahan said, ‘We have learned that you only came out of your lands due to poverty and hunger, so come and I will give each of your men ten dinars, clothing, and food, so that you can return to your lands. Then, next year, we will send the same to you.’ Khalid responded, ‘We did not come out of our lands due to what you mentioned, but it is only because we are a people who drink blood, and it has reached us that there is no blood tastier than Roman blood. That is why we have come.’ At that, Mahan’s companions said, ‘By Allah, this is what we were told about the Arabs!’” Later, during the khilafah of ‘Ali, there were some people who began worshiping him, claiming him to be divine. He thus ordered that all of them be burned. Adh-Dhahabi said, “Some people came to ‘Ali and said, ‘You are Him!’ He said, ‘Who am I?’ They said, ‘You are Him!’ He said, ‘Woe to you, who am I?’ They said, ‘You are our Lord!’ He said, ‘Recant,’ but they refused. So he struck their necks and made a ditch for them, and then said, ‘O Qanbar [his slave], bring me a pile of firewood.’ He then burned them and said [a line of poetry], ‘When I saw the matter was one of vice, I kindled my fire and called for Qanbar’” (Tarikh al-Islam). An abridged version of this story was reported by al-Bukhari in his sahih from Ibn ‘Abbas, who narrated that ‘Ali burned these zanadiqah alive. What we have mentioned here of stories is only a small sample of the manner in which the Sahabah dealt with the kuffar and the murtaddin during their wars with them. Whoever wishes to follow them will be guided and saved. And whoever wants to follow another path, then Allah will leave him to what he chose of deviant methodologies and deviating sects. And whoever claims to be more guided than the Sahabah, then he has belied Allah and His Messenger, and Allah alone guides to the right way.