Allah created His slaves and made tribulation something constant for them, so that the pure become distinct from the corrupt, and that those who perish may perish upon clear proof and that those who live may live upon clear proof. Thus, there will be no consolidation without trial, no victory without hardship, and no ease without difficulty. The path to Allah and what He prepared for the believers therein of immense reward is a costly path, and these costs cannot be expended except by true believers, those whose hearts are attached to Allah alone, who are steadfast upon the methodology of the Prophet and his noble companions. These – the true believers – are not confused by famous men and popular names. They seek the truth and recognize its people. And the people of truth are not those whose reputation in “jihad” circulated for decades, only to distance themselves therefrom, to deteriorate and regress, eventually becoming people who desert jihad and deny it. Nor are they those who spent their lives reading and writing about jihad, but when the herald called, “The Islamic State has been established, so come and follow up your knowledge with action,” they turned in arrogance, as if they were hard of hearing. Describing the path to the gardens of eternity, Ibnul-Qayyim said, “How far are you from the path? It is the path upon which Adam became exhausted, upon which Nuh cried [in prayer], upon which Ibrahim was cast into the fire, upon which Isma’il was laid down for slaughter, upon which Yusuf was sold for a meager price and spent years in prison, upon which Zakariyya was sawed in half, upon which Yahya was butchered, upon which Ayyub faced harsh illness, upon which Dawud wept greatly [in fear of Allah], upon which ‘Isa walked with wild beasts, and upon which Muhammad faced poverty and all kinds of abuse” (Al-Fawaid). So if this was the condition of the Prophets, among whom were those of utmost determination, who met what they met for the sake of Allah, had patience, and were steadfast despite the great harm they endured due to their da’wah to tawhid, never slackening or becoming weak, then what about those who are lesser than them? Are they not tried so that they might become pure? Are they not tested so that they might become sincere? Ash-Shafi’i was asked, “Which is best for a man, to be granted consolidation or to be tested?” He said, “He will not be granted consolidation until he is tested” (Al-Fawaid). Indeed, one who does not have a scorching beginning will not have a shining end. So there is no consolidation until the trials are intensified and the constraints are tightened, as Jannah is only promised to the truthful men and women. Therein they shall gaze upon Allah’s face, which is the highest of blessings and the dearest of hopes. Could that be attained through abundance and pleasure in the dunya, while not being afflicted by hardship? Rather, it is attained by being killed beneath the shades of swords. “Or did you think that you would enter Jannah and what came to those before you has yet to come to you – they were afflicted by hardship and distress, and they were shaken until the Messenger and those who believed along with him said, ‘When will the support of Allah come?’” (Al-Baqarah 214). At-Tabari said, “The meaning of these words is: Or do you think that you, O believers in Allah and His Messengers, shall enter into Jannah before you are afflicted as those before you were tested and tried with hardship – i.e. difficulty and poverty – and distress – i.e. illness and disease, and before you are shaken as they were shaken, meaning due to what their enemies brought to them of fear and terror, until the people consider Allah’s support to be slow in coming to them, so they say, ‘When will Allah support us?’” This was not unknown to Hiraql, the Roman king, when he said to Abu Sufyan, “I had asked you how your war with him carries on, and you claimed that sometimes you win the battles, and other times, he does. Such is the condition of the messengers, as they are tested and the ultimate victory is theirs” (Reported by al-Bukhari and Muslim). How could this be unknown to the muwahhidin who think well of Allah?! And verily this religion is dear, and calling to tawhid and raising the word of Allah in the land requires enormous sacrifice, just like what was offered by the People of the Trench, whom the taghut of their time completely eradicated, leaving no person of them alive. And they – after believing in the Lord of the boy – watched as the kuffar dug the trenches and lit fires therein, in order to cast into them those who were steadfast and would not apostatize. But that did not even scratch at the surface of their iman, nor did it budge them from their religion, until even a woman came holding her baby boy while she was hesitating to throw herself into the fire, so her child said to her in encouragement, “Dear mother, have patience, for you are upon the truth” (Reported by Muslim from Suhayb). Al-Bukhari wrote, “Chapter: Those Who Choose to Be Struck, Killed, and Humiliated Rather than [Be Coerced into Saying or Doing] Kufr.” He mentioned therein the following narration of Khabbab Ibn al-Aratt, “We complained to Allah’s Messenger while he was reclining against his folded cloak in the shade of the Ka’bah. We said to him, ‘Will you not seek support for us? Will you not supplicate Allah for us?’ He said, ‘There were men before you who were put in holes, dug in the ground. Then saws were brought to them and placed atop their heads, until they were split into two, but that did not turn them back from their religion. Their skins were combed with iron combs, separating their flesh from their bones or nerves, but that did not turn them back from their religion. By Allah! This matter will come to completion, until the rider from Sana’a will travel to Hadramawt, fearing none but Allah or a wolf for his flock. But you seek to hasten matters.’” For the struggle between truth and falsehood, there is a price that the believers must pay, as Allah said, “So they kill and are killed” (At-Tawbah 111). And what is greater than the Battle of Uhud as an excellent study and lesson learned? In that battle, it was not a single wazir, amir, or leader, nor only two, three, or ten who were killed. Rather, it was the Sayyid of Shuhada, Hamzah, the uncle of the Prophet, among seventy of the best of the Sahabah. In one day, this number of men were killed and mutilated. But which men? They were the Companions of Allah’s Messenger. And on the Day of Uhud, the voice of kufr arose and the kuffar became inflated with pride. The kuffar thought their feat would last forever. Abu Sufyan stood and said, “Is Muhammad there?” He said, “Do not answer him.” So he said, “Is Ibn Abi Quhafah [Abu Bakr as-Siddiq] there?” He said, “Do not answer him.” So he said, “Is [‘Umar] Ibnul-Khattab there?” When no one answered, Abu Sufyan said, “Indeed they have been killed, for if they were alive, they would have responded!” But ‘Umar was not able to contain himself, so he said, “You have lied, O enemy of Allah! Allah has kept for you what shall disgrace you!” Abu Sufyan said, “Hubal [an idol] is highest!” So the Prophet said, “Answer him.” They said, “What should we say?” He said, “Say, Allah is higher and more majestic!” Abu Sufyan said, “We have ‘Uzza, and there is no ‘Uzza for you!” So the Prophet said, “Answer him.” They said, “What should we say?” He said, “Say, Allah is our patron, and there is no patron for you!” (Reported by al-Bukhari from al-Bara Ibn ‘Azib). An Arab poet once said, “If a chief of ours departs, another chief stands, speaking and acting as nobles do. And our days are known to our enemy, as they are crowned and adorned in glory.” Are the believers today better to Allah than that first generation of men, those who were tested and shaken greatly until their hearts reached their throats?! And whoever thinks that the conquests of Rome and Constantinople will be made through empty words – not wounds – is confused and mistaken! It should be clear then that after the trials and tribulations, the believing muwahhid stands solid, by his Lord’s permission, and that the munafiq and anyone with weak iman will fall. Thereafter, only the pure will remain. These are those whose cores have been cleansed and clarified of any impurities and filth of the dunya. Then, at that time only, the voice of truth will rise in their souls, and the answer will come to them, descending upon them in all its coolness and tranquility. “O! Verily the victory of Allah is near” (Al-Baqarah 214). Indeed such victory and conquest is near, as we find the wind of our blessed Khilafah blowing from east to west, despite the claims of the enemy. Thus, patience is most fitting, and Allah’s aid alone is sought.