As the soldiers of the Khilafah continue waging war on the forces of kufr, we take a glimpse at a number of recent operations conducted by the mujahidin of the Islamic State that have succeeded in expanding the territory of the Khilafah, or terrorizing, massacring, and humiliating the enemies of Allah. These operations are merely a selection of the numerous operations that the Islamic State has conducted on various fronts across many regions over the course of the last few weeks. Barakah Wilayah On the 2nd of Muharram, our brother Abul-Bara al-Ansari  stealthily advanced towards a large group of PKK murtaddin on the outskirts of the city of Barakah. He carried out a surprise attack on them with his light weapon and, after massacring several of them and exhausting his supply of ammunition, charged into their midst and detonated his explosive vest on them. The operation resulted more than 40 murtaddin being killed and approximately 100 others being wounded, including a number of leaders and officials. Baghdad Wilayah On the 2nd of Muharram, two soldiers of the Khilafah carried out istishhadi attacks targeting the Rafidi mushrikin. Our brother Abu Usamah al-‘Iraqi  entered into the midst of one of their shirki processions in the ‘Amil neighborhood in southwest Baghdad and detonated his explosive vest on them. Meanwhile, our brother Abu Talhah al-‘Iraqi  entered into the midst of another shirki procession in the area of Mishtal towards the east of Baghdad and detonated his explosive vest on them. The two blessed operations resulted in nearly 100 Rafidah being killed and wounded. On the 8th of Muharram, our istishhadi brother Abul-Bara al-‘Iraqi  detonated his explosive vest in the midst of a procession of Rafidi mushrikin in the area of New Baghdad. He succeeded in killing more than 30 mushrikin and injuring more than 40 others. On the 14th of Muharram, our istishhadi brother Abu Fahd al-‘Iraqi  entered into the midst of a group of Rafidi mushrikin during one of their shirki processions in the city of Sha’b towards the northeast of Baghdad and detonated his explosive vest on them. The blessed operation resulted in approximately 100 murtaddin being killed and wounded. Idlib On the 5th of Muharram, our brother Abu Qudamah ash-Shami  carried out an istishhadi attack, on a large group of American-vetted Sahwah fighters seeking to enter through the Atimah border crossing in order to fight the Islamic State. He detonated his explosive vehicle in their midst, killing 35 murtaddin and injuring nearly 45 others. Among them were some heads of kufr, including the murtadd Hisham Khalifah, a leader in Ahrar ash-Sham, the murtadd Khalid as-Sayyid, the head of the taghut higher judicial council, and Muhammad al-Faraj, the murtadd general deputy of the judicial council, both councils judging by other than what Allah revealed. Algeria On the 7th of Muharram, the soldiers of the Khilafah detonated an explosive device on a convoy belonging to the murtadd Algerian army yesterday near the city of Tamalus in Skikda towards the northeast of Algeria. On the 28th of Muharram, the soldiers of the Khilafah assassinated a brigadier general in the murtadd Algerian police in the city of Qusantinah and took his weapon. Khurasan Wilayah On the 11th of Muharram, our istishhadi brother ‘Ali Jan  set out towards a gathering of Rafidi mushrikin in the area of Kartah Sakhi Ziyarat in the city of Kabul as they were engaged in their shirki rituals. He attacked them with his assault rifle and hand grenades until he finished his ammunition, and then detonated his explosive vest in their midst, killing more than 14 of them, and injuring approximately 40 others. An Afghan intelligence force then arrived to protect the pagan shrine, and 30 minutes after the first attack, our istishhadi brother Thaqib al-Khurasani attacked the intelligence personnel. He opened fire on them with his assault rifle and threw several hand grenades before detonating his explosive vest on them, killing and injuring 70 murtaddin. On the 24th of Muharram, our brothers Talhah al-Khurasani, ‘Umar al-Khurasani, and ‘Ubaydah al-Khurasani  carried out an inghimasi attack on a training center belonging to the murtadd Pakistani police in the area of Saryab Road in the city of Quetta towards the west of Pakistan. The inghimasiyyin clashed with the murtaddin for four hours using automatic weapons and hand grenades, and then detonated their explosive vests in the murtaddin’s midst. The attack resulted in approximately 60 murtaddin in the Pakistani police being killed and approximately 120 others being wounded. Germany On the 15th of Muharram, a soldier of the Khilafah stabbed two disbelievers in the city of Hamburg in response to the Islamic State’s call to target the citizens of nations participating in the Crusader coalition. Karkuk Wilayah On the 20th of Muharram, the soldiers of the Khilafah stormed the city of Karkuk and took control of 10 of its neighborhoods following a security operation in which they were able to infiltrate the city from several axes. The soldiers of the Khilafah attacked government offices in the city and took control of a number of them, following which they kept advancing and took control of the neighborhoods of One Huzayran, Dumiz, ‘Urubah, Nasr, Majidiyyah, Wasiti, Tis’in, ‘Adalah, Mamdudah, and Gharnatah as a breakdown took place in the ranks of the murtaddin of the Peshmerga, the Rafidi Mobilization, and the security forces. At least 360 murtaddin were killed and a number of others were taken prisoner, including a lieutenant colonel in the Asayish security agency. Sources from inside the city reported that a number of Peshmerga officers fled with their families outside the city of Karkuk. Meanwhile, the soldiers of the Khilafah carried out an istishhadi operation with an explosive vehicle, striking a group of murtadd security forces near the provincial government building. During the course of the attack, the mujahidin captured a number of military vehicles as well as large quantities of ammo as ghanimah, and destroyed several other vehicles belonging to the murtaddin. In conjunction with the attack on the city, the soldiers of the Khilafah launched an attack on the region of Dibs north of Karkuk, with an istishhadi operation striking a Peshmerga reinforcement convoy and the mujahidin also cutting off the murtaddin’s supply route between the region of Dibs and the city of Karkuk. They also attacked the areas of Albu Hamdan, Maktab Khalid, Daquq, Rashad, Sardak, Kabbah, and Bashir towards the south and southwest of Karkuk, as well as the area of Kraw towards the northeast of Hawijah. This operation was part of many to devastate the murtaddin and break their campaign against Ninawa Wilayah. The mujahidin thereafter withdrew from Karkuk after executing their mission, and all praise is to Allah. Anbar Wilayah On the morning of the 22nd of Muharram, the soldiers of the Khilafah launched a wide scale attack from five axes on the city of Rutbah located near the artificial borders with Jordan towards the west of Anbar. During the course of the attack, they succeeded in taking control of most of the city’s neighborhoods in just a matter of hours. The operation began with inghimasi attacks on Rafidi army positions and barracks both in the city and its surrounding areas, in addition to the mujahidin cutting off their supply route through the area of Kilo 160. The soldiers of the Khilafah then stormed the murtadd barracks in the vicinity of the city, completely capturing them, and then continued their advance towards the city, entering its neighborhoods and attacking the Rafidi army’s positions and centers. They succeeded in taking complete control of the city apart from the neighborhood of Karabilah. The neighborhood of Karabilah saw an istishhadi attack on one of the locations where the remnants of the murtaddin were entrenched, and a second istishhadi attack was carried out targeting one of the Rafidi army barracks during the course of the assault. The operation resulted in more than 70 Rafidi soldiers being killed, in addition to a large number of their vehicles being destroyed. This operation came only two days after the soldiers of the Khilafah penetrated the city of Karkuk and was part of the operations to devastate the murtaddin and break their campaign against Ninawa Wilayah. The mujahidin thereafter withdrew from Rutbah after executing their mission, and all praise is to Allah. Russia On the 22nd of Muharram, two soldiers of the Khilafah  carried out an attack on a Russian military base in the city of Nizhny Novgorod, attacking the Crusaders with light weapons and hand grenades before the shahadah of the two brothers. They thereby exacted vengeance for the Muslims killed by the Russian Crusaders and their Rafidi and Nusayri allies in Qawqaz, Iraq, and Sham. Somalia On the 25th of Muharram, the soldiers of the Khilafah carried out an attack on a number of police stations belonging to the murtadd Somali police in the city of Bosaso towards the east of Somalia and in the city of Yakhshed north of Mogadishu, and succeeded, by Allah’s grace, in taking control of the town of Qandala located near the city of Bosaso. On the 27th of Muharram, the soldiers of the Khilafah destroyed an armored vehicle belonging to African Union forces after targeting it with an explosive device in the area of Ilasha near Mogadishu. They also carried out two attacks with hand grenades, with the first attack targeting a government headquarters in the area of Ilasha and the second attack targeting a police station in the city of Bosaso towards the east of Somalia. Kenya On the 26th of Muharram, a soldier of the Khilafah  stabbed one of the Crusader guards at the American embassy in the city of Nairobi in response to the Islamic State’s call to target the citizens of nations participating in the Crusader coalition.