The breaking and burning of idols is a major aspect of rejecting taghut and something that the prophets all practiced. Among the famous examples was that of Ibrahim , who smashed the idols of his people with an axe, and Musa , who melted the gold calf worshiped by Bani Israil. Likewise, the Seal of the Prophets, Muhammad , destroyed the Arab idols in Makkah, burning and demolishing al-Lat, al-‘Uzza, Manat, Hubal, and others. Thereafter, the Sahabah and the Tabi’in treaded that same path, as do those today who follow that same guidance. We also find in the later history of the Muslim Ummah those who followed the prophets  by making the destruction of mushrik idols their greatest priority in life. They strove to that end and fought for it, crossing great deserts and confronting many perils in order to reach this goal. Among them was the warrior Mahmud Ibn Subuktikin , whom people nicknamed “the Breaker of Idols” due to the numerous and significant idols he destroyed. This was only one of his many great traits, as he was also known for supporting the Sunnah, subduing bid’ah (heretical innovation), and bringing unity to the Muslims by pledging bay’ah to the ‘Abbasi khalifah and obeying him. Sultan Mahmud Ibn Subuktikin was born in Muharram of the year 360AH in the city of Ghaznah, Khurasan. He became the ruler of the land after the death of his father in the year 387AH, thereafter devoting himself to waging jihad against the mushrikin of India, destroying their idols, and spreading Islam in their lands. It was in the year 396AH that this Sultan Mahmud al-Ghaznawi marched to the fort of Kawakir, which housed six hundred pagan idols. After conquering the fort, he burned all of the idols therein (Ibnul-Athir: Al-Kamil). In the year 398AH, al-Ghaznawi returned to raiding India. Ibnul-Athir said, “He reached the banks of the Indus River and was met there by Anandapala [the Indian king] with the armies of India. They fought all day until it seemed that the Indians would defeat the Muslims, but then Allah  supported him over them. The Muslims defeated the Indians and sent them fleeing or killed them by the sword. Yamin ad-Dawlah [i.e. al-Ghaznawi] followed Anandapala to the fort at Bahim Naghar, which was on a high mountain. The fort was taken by the Indians as a treasury for one of their largest idols… When the Indians saw the magnitude of his force, their sheer desire to fight, and their continuous march towards them, they were taken by fear and cowardice, requested amnesty, and opened the gate of the fortress. The Muslims took control of the fort and Yamin ad-Dawlah ascended, along with his closest companions and trusted friends, and collected an undefined amount of jewels, as well as ninety million Shahi dirhams” (Al-Kamil). Thus, Allah humiliated the mushrikin and their tawaghit. Their idols were destroyed and the Muslims seized all that was offered to the largest idol of India of precious metals and jewels. The Sultan did the same in 400AH, marching into India, pillaging it, and destroying the idols therein. In the year 405AH, he marched on Thanesar. Ibnul-Athir said, “When they came near their destination, they found a river with a fast current, which would be difficult to ford, and the leader of those lands stood on its banks to prevent anyone from crossing, having his soldiery and war elephants with him for this task. Yamin ad-Dawlah then ordered the bravest of his army to cross the river and engage the kuffar with combat, which they did, in order to allow the rest of the army to cross. They fought the Indians and kept them engaged until the rest of the army managed to ford the then undefended river and fought then on all fronts for the rest of the day. The Indians were defeated, the Muslims were victorious, and they seized what the enemy brought of wealth and elephants.” Some historians mention that one of the kings of India made an offer to the Sultan in exchange that he stop destroying their idols and temples, saying, “I know that this is something by which you get closer to your Lord, but have you not brought yourselves close enough by destroying these idols and temples, especially at the fort of Nakarkart?” He then promised to pay large sums of money to this end, but the Sultan refused and proclaimed that he was fighting to make Allah’s word supreme and to obtain His contentment – not for the sake of this temporal world. He then hurried to the temple to destroy their idols, except for one idol, which he took with him so that it could be trampled underfoot in his own land. In the year 407AH, the conquests of Sultan Mahmud took him to one of the most heavily fortified temples. Ibnul-Athir said, “They kept many idols in it, including five made of pure gold and studded with gemstones. The gold therein totaled 690,300 dinars. There were also around two hundred idols carved from stone. Yamin ad-Dawlah took all of the treasures and destroyed everything else. He then marched on Kannauj… He took its forts and seven surrounding towns located along the river. In the area, there were nearly 10,000 idol houses, which they falsely claimed to have been 200,000 to 300,000 years old. When he conquered them, his military pillaged them all.” But the most significant victory of the Sultan – regarding his destruction of idols – and that which had the greatest effect, was when he destroyed the major, pagan, Indian idol called Somnath in the year 416AH. Ibnul-Athir described it, saying, “This idol was the largest idol of the Indians, who would make pilgrimage to it every night of an eclipse. About 100,000 people would gather… and they would carry anything of value to it, giving its caretakers large sums of money. The idol had endowments amounting to 10,000 villages.” Despite these riches, the Sultan was not driven by worldly gain upon exerting this great effort in raids and destruction. Rather, he wanted to put an end to the worship of idols by destroying what the Indians considered to be the “leader” of idols. Ibnul-Athir said, “Every time Yamin ad-Dawlah was victorious in India, the Indians would say, ‘Somnath was displeased with those idols. If he was pleased with them, he would have destroyed whoever sought them harm.’ When this reached Yamin ad-Dawlah, he was determined to attack and destroy this Somnath, thinking that if the Indians were bereft of it and saw the falsehood of their claim, they would enter into Islam. So he prayed istikharah and marched from Ghaznah on the 10th of Sha’ban in 416AH with 30,000 of his regular cavalry, not to mention those who volunteered.” The road to reaching this idol was hard and strenuous, as it required the crossing of desert terrain. But such risks did not deter the muwahhid Sultan’s determination to destroy this idol. Ibnul-Athir said, “When he crossed the desert, at its edge he saw fortresses fully stationed with fighters, as well as many wells, which the Indians had filled with sand in order to prevent him from besieging their fortresses. Allah then facilitated their conquest, upon him getting close, by casting terror into their hearts, so they surrendered. He killed the residents, destroyed their idols, and took what was needed of water and provisions.” Thus, the Sultan reached Somnath after traversing deserts, battling peoples, and laying siege to forts. Ibnul-Athir said, “He reached Somnath on the day of Khamis in the middle of Dhul-Qa’dah and saw a heavily fortified fortress built on the oceanfront. The sea waves would reach part of the fortress. Its people were sitting on the walls, gazing at the Muslims and entrusting their idol to foil the plan of the Muslims and make them perish.” Such is the foolish mentality of idol worshipers. How then could they ever face the soldiers of tawhid, those who wage jihad for Allah’s cause in order to purge the earth from the filth of shirk and its people? Ibnul-Athir relates to us the details of the battle and the shock of the pagans at the inactivity of their idol, as it remained motionless in front of those who came to destroy it. They put all their hopes in it, claiming that none of their idols ever perished due to this idol’s wrath, as they believed that their objects of worship would fight with each other. Ibnul-Athir said, “The Indians then saw the Muslims fighting in a manner the Indians had never faced, so they abandoned the walls as the Muslims erected ladders thereon, climbing them, pronouncing the word of ikhlas (‘la ilaha illallah’), and manifesting the slogan of Islam. The fighting then intensified and the matter became grave, so a group of Indians approached Somnath, slapping their cheeks with soil and asking it for victory. Night came and the fighting paused. The next day, the Muslims went out early and attacked, killing many Indians, and pushing them outside of the city to the house of their idol Somnath. The Indians fought fiercely at its gate. Each group of Indians would enter to Somnath, embrace it, weep, and supplicate it with humiliation, then leave to fight to the death, until they were almost completely annihilated. The few who remained went into the ocean, boarding two of their boats, seeking salvation thereby. But the Muslims caught up with them and killed some as others drowned.” As for the fate of the idol Somnath, then, “Yamin ad-Dawlah took the idol, broke it, burned some of it, and took some of it to Ghaznah, where he made it the doorstep of the main masjid.” The idol was thereby severely humiliated by being trampled upon after it was destroyed. The Muslims seized so much ghanimah in this battle, it would compensate what they spent during their jihad; it was but a blessing provided by Allah . Ibnul-Athir said, “The value of what these houses contained was more than twenty million dinars, and all of it was seized. The number of those killed exceeded fifty thousand.” Sultan Mahmud al-Ghaznawi continued his jihad until Allah  took his soul in the year 421AH. Through his jihad in India, he  made a great impact allowing Islam to settle into India for many centuries. His breaking of the idol Somnath likewise left an effect on the pagans. The persistence of the Sultan and his jihad for Allah’s cause was not limited to fighting the mushrikin. Rather, he also had a sword placed firmly on the necks of the deviant mubtadi’ah and the apostate Batiniyyah, subduing bid’ah and reviving the Sunnah, which was given a high standing in his era . Part 2 Sultan Mahmud al-Ghaznawi  devoted himself to the utter destruction of idols, some of his feats in this regards being mentioned before, including his destruction of Somnath, the largest idol of the Indians. And his persistence in adhering to the Muslim Jama’ah and in going to war with the deviant sects was like his persistence in crushing shirk and its people. Many examples of this were recorded in history. In the year 404AH, and after his return from one of his raids, he sent correspondence to the ‘Abbasi Khalifah al-Qadir Billah , requesting that the Khalifah grant him authority over what he had conquered. Ibnul-Athir said, “When he finished his raid, he returned to Ghaznah and sent a message to al-Qadir Billah, requesting an official covenant of leadership over Khurasan and other areas under his control, to which he agreed” (Al-Kamil). Al-Ghaznawi was not in need of an official covenant to strengthen his authority, but he wanted to be in the shade of a Qurashi Imam, around whom the Muslims could gather. The Khalifah further honored him by giving him lofty titles. Ibnul-Jawzi said, “The Khalifah sent him a covenant and gave him the titles of Yamin ad-Dawlah [the Right Hand of the State] and Amin al-Millah [the Trustee of the Religion], and later, Nidham ad-Din [the Order of the Religion] and Nasir al-Haqq [the Supporter of Truth]” (Al- Muntadhim). Al-Ghaznawi would never abandon obedience to the Qurashi Khalifah to join instead those who unjustly claimed khilafah and untruthfully alleged a Fatimi lineage. Ibn Kathir  said, “The sermons throughout the lands of his authority would mention prayers for the Khalifah al-Qadir Billah. When the Fatimiyyah [i.e. ‘Ubaydiyyah] sent messengers to him with books and gifts, in order to sway him to their side, he had them burned along with their books and gifts” (Al-Bidayah wan-Nihayah). Al-Ghaznawi also had one of the Fatimi messengers sent as a captive, along with his gifts, to the ‘Abbasi Khalifah for the Khalifah to oversee the punishment. Ibnul-Jawzi said, “Abul-‘Abbas al-Qadir Billah was brought what the ‘Ubaydi leader of Egypt had sent along with a letter from Yamin ad-Dawlah that declared he was a loyal servant who considered obedience to the Khalifah compulsory and that he was free of those who opposed the ‘Abbasi state. The next day, the gifts of clothing were brought out to Nubi Gate, where a hole was dug. Firewood was thrown into it, followed by the gifted clothes, and a fire was lit therein.” Ibn Taymiyyah  said, “The ‘Ubaydi ruler in Egypt wrote to al Ghaznawi, calling him to obedience, so he burned his letter upon the head of the ‘Ubaydi’s messenger. The Sultan greatly supported Ahlus- Sunnah as is well known” (Minhaj as-Sunnah). In the late 390s after the Hijrah, al-Ghaznawi marched to Multan to terminate the rule of the apostate Qaramitah there. Ibnul-Athir said, “Its governor Abul-Futuh was reportedly wicked in creed, even accused of atheism. He would call his subjects to follow him in his creed, to which they responded. Yamin ad-Dawlah decided to wage jihad against him and bring him down, so he set forth for him. But he saw that the rivers on his way were deep and wide… so he was not able to cross to the other side. He sent a request to the Indian king to cross through his lands to Multan, but he did not grant him his request; so he set out for the king before Multan and said, ‘We will combine two raids in one.’” Al-Ghaznawi was able, by the grace of Allah, to defeat the Indian king and then reach Multan. Ibnul-Athir said, “When Abul-Futuh heard the news of his approach, he knew that he would be unable to stand up to him or against him, so he transferred his wealth to Sri Lanka and fled from Multan. Yamin ad-Dawlah reached Multan and set camp. Finding its people blind in their deviance, he besieged them until the situation became hard for them. He continued the battle until the city was taken by force. And he made the people pay 20,000 dirhams as a punishment for their insurgence,” meaning, along with their tawbah. Sultan Mahmud al-Ghaznawi was dedicated to obeying the Qurashi Khalifah and waging war against the mubtadi’ah and zanadiqah (heretics). In the year 408AH, “Yamin ad-Dawlah, Amin al-Millah Abul-Qasim Mahmud Ibn Subuktikin, in accordance with the command of Amirul-Muminin and in following his example, took to killing the Mu’tazilah, Rafidah, Isma’iliyyah, Qaramitah, Jahmiyyah, and Mushabbihah, as well as crucifying them, imprisoning them, and banishing them. He did so in the lands over which he was granted authority in Khurasan and elsewhere. He ordered that the mubtadi’ah be cursed atop the Muslim pulpits and that every sect of Ahlul-Bid’ah be shunned and expelled from their lands. Such thereby became a good example in Islam” (Al-Bidayah wan-Nihayah). In the year 420AH, al-Ghaznawi marched to Ray, where the Rafidi “Majd ad-Dawlah” al-Buwayhi ruled. He eradicated his reign, completely defeating him and his soldiers. He sent the news to the Khalifah al-Qadir Billah in a letter mentioned by Ibnul-Jawzi as containing, “Allah has removed the hands of darkness from this land and purified it from the da’wah of the disbelieving Batiniyyah and criminal mubtadi’ah. The reality of the situation has come to your majesty’s attention, regarding this slave’s focused efforts and endeavors to fight the people of kufr and deviance, and to subdue what emerged in the lands of Khurasan of this evil Batini sect, which took the city of Ray as their main refuge wherefrom they publicly called to their kufr. Therein, the Mu’tazili mubtadi’ah mixed with the extreme Rafidah, who opposed the Book of Allah and the Sunnah, openly insulting the Sahabah, adopting beliefs of kufr, and permitting what is forbidden.” Likewise, the Sultan had encounters with the deviant Ash’ariyyah, including what adh-Dhahabi mentioned, that “Ibn Furak [an Ash’ari teacher] entered upon Sultan Mahmud and said, ‘It is not permissible that Allah be described as being above, as that would necessitate that He also be described as being below, for anyone who is above could also be below.’ The Sultan responded, ‘I am not the one who described Him as such for this to be binding on me. Rather, He is the one who described Himself [as being above].’ Ibn Furak was thus dumbstruck” (As-Siyar). Adh-Dhahabi also said, “Abul-Walid Sulayman al-Baji said, ‘When Ibn Furak requested the Karramiyyah be punished, they sent a message to Mahmud Ibn Subuktikin, the leader of Khurasan, saying, ‘This one who has incited against us is greater in bid’ah and kufr, according to you, than us. Ask him about Muhammad Ibn ‘Abdillah Ibn ‘Abdil- Muttalib, ‘Is he Allah’s Messenger today or not?’’ This weighed heavily on Mahmud. He said, ‘If this is true, I will kill him.’ He then summoned him and asked him, who then replied, “He was Allah’s Messenger, but as for today, then no.’ So he ordered that he be killed, but others interceded for him, saying, ‘He is a man of old age.’ So he ordered that he be killed with poison, which he was given to drink’” (Tarikh al-Islam). Ibn Hazm said, “A sect of mubtadi’ah appeared, claiming that Muhammad Ibn ‘Abdillah Ibn ‘Abdil-Muttalib  is not now Allah’s Messenger, which is an opinion followed by the Ash’ariyyah. Sulayman Ibn Khalaf al-Baji – and he is of their leaders today – told me that Muhammad Ibn al-Hasan Ibn Furak al-Asbahani was poisoned to death for this opinion by Mahmud Ibn Subuktikin, the leader of Transoxiana and Khurasan … We take refuge with Allah from this opinion, for it is undoubtedly blatant kufr… Those who say this have denied the Quran, as Allah  said, ‘Muhammad is Allah’s Messenger’ (Al-Fath 29). They have denied the adhan and the iqamah, which Allah  made compulsory five times every day and night for every group of Muslims. They have denied the da’wah of all Muslims, to which they call the kuffar, for which there is no salvation from Hellfire except through it, and upon which all Muslims have agreed. They have belied all eras of Muslims, from the Sahabah and those after them, from the best of Muslims and worst of them, who all agreed upon openly declaring that there is no god except Allah and that Muhammad is the Messenger of Allah. This accursed opinion requires declaring as liars all callers of the adhan, announcers of the iqamah, and du’at of Islam who say that Muhammad is Allah’s Messenger – and that they must instead say, ‘Muhammad was Allah’s Messenger.’ For this reason, the Amir Mahmud Ibn Subuktikin, servant of Amirul-Muminin and leader of Khurasan , killed Ibn Furak, the Shaykh of the Ash’ariyyah. May Allah reward Mahmud well for that and curse Ibn Furak, his supporters, and his followers” (Al- Fisal). Thus, al-Ghaznawi would not remain silent about the callers to deviance and the people of kalam. Ibn Taymiyyah commended the Sultan, saying, “The kingdom of Mahmud Ibn Subuktikin was one of the best kingdoms of the era. Islam and the Sunnah were honored therein. Indeed, he would attack the mushrikin of India and spread unprecedented justice. Thus, in his days, the Sunnah was manifest and bid’ah was subdued” (Al-Fatawa). He also said, “He was of the best and most just of kings, and he was of the severest of people in his stance against the people of bid’ah” (Minhaj as-Sunnah). Such is the blessing of giving bay’ah to the Imam and waging war against the mubtadi’ah and the zanadiqah: Support, consolidation, and victory against enemies. Ibn Kathir said about the events of 421AH, “In Rabi’ al-Awwal of this year, died the just king, the great warlord, the empowered murabit, the victorious mujahid, Yamin ad-Dawlah Abul-Qasim Mahmud Ibn Subuktikin, leader of Ghaznah and the greater kingdoms, conqueror of most of India, breaker of their temples and idols, and subduer of the Indians and subduer of their greatest leader.” These are mere fragments of the life of a just sultan. He supported Tawhid and the Sunnah, subdued shirk and bid’ah, and was devoted to strengthening the Muslim Jama’ah in a time when many heretical sects and deviant factions rose to wage war against the Khilafah and strove to weaken it. The allegiance of Sultan Mahmud to Amirul-Muminin al-Qadir played a major role in subduing those sects and returning the prestige of the Qurashi Khilafah. And today in Khurasan, a generation of muwahhidin, by whom Allah supports Islam and its people, are waging war against shirk, subduing bid’ah, and holding on to the Jama’ah. We ask Allah that Sindh and India be conquered anew at their hands. He is certainly capable of that, and all praise belongs to Allah, the Lord of the creation.