The wives of Allah’s Messenger  in the Dunya and the Akhirah, the Mothers of the Believers , were the purest and most pious, chaste, and devout of women. Allah addressed them from above the seven heavens, giving divine advice and teaching distinct etiquette, none of which requires further interpretation or explanation for those whom Allah has granted insight. From these lessons is one coming in the form of an order in His saying, “Abide in your homes” (Al-Ahzab 33), meaning stay, be settled, and remain at home. Since it is Allah  who commanded this, the believing men and women have no choice but to say, “We hear and we obey.” Why then do most women today not stay in their homes as the best of them had been ordered, but instead so often leave for no true need or necessity? This is a weakness in their religious capacity for adhering to these kinds of teachings, as doing so goes against the pleasures claimed in leaving one’s home for the tempting, beautiful world. Some might say that this order of remaining home is specific to the wives of the Prophet  and thus other women are not included therein. Al-Qurtubi answers this by saying, “The meaning of this ayah is the command to stay at home. Even though it was addressed to the wives of the Prophet , others are included in its meaning, whether or not there is evidence explicitly encompassing all women by the ayah. How then when the Shari’ah is full of evidences about women having to remain in their homes and to abstain from leaving unnecessarily” (At-Tafsir). Ibn Kathir  said, “These are etiquettes which Allah ordered the wives of the Prophet  to practice, and the women of the Ummah have to follow them therein” (At Tafsir). Indeed, if such was the commandment of Allah to the wives of the Prophet – the best of women, with the purest hearts, and most wary of what Allah has forbidden – then how about women who are less than them in status? We cannot forbid what Allah  permitted, we seek refuge from doing so. Allah  is kind and merciful to His slaves and did not forbid a woman from leaving her home absolutely. Rather, He only made staying home the default rule. As for her leaving home, then such is based upon need. This need is evaluated by the woman after her husband, father, or guardian. And Allah  is “most knowledgeable of who has taqwa” (An-Najm 32). The Sunnah is full of ahadith that indicate the permissibility of a woman leaving her home to seek a fatwa, to provide water and medical treatment on the battleground to the wounded, or to visit her friends and relatives. As for her going out becoming a habitual, regular practice, then such is at variance with the Shari’ah by diverging from the default rule, which is that women should stay home. In this regards, the Muslim woman should consider the hadith of the Prophet , in which he said, “Do not prevent your women from the masajid, however, their homes are better for them” (Reported by Ahmad, Abu Dawud, Ibn Khuzaymah, al-Hakim, and ad-Diya from Ibn ‘Umar). The masjid is the house of Allah and the most beloved of places to Him , and prayer is the pillar of the religion, yet the Shari’ah does not require that women pray in congregation, which has been made obligatory on men. But instead, it has made her prayer in her home better for her than going out to witness the congregational prayer in the masjid. Indeed, this is to further safeguard the woman and shield her from view as much as possible. The Prophet  said, “The woman is ‘awrah [something that should be covered]. When she goes out, Shaytan stares at her [or adorns her]. And she is closest to Allah when she is inside her home” (Reported by Ibn Khuzaymah and Ibn Hibban from Ibn Mas’ud). The Muslim woman who is veiled in accordance with the Shari’ah should not assume that her veil distances her from this hadith or that the woman is only ‘awrah when she is unveiled or adorned. Rather she is ‘awrah whenever she leaves her home, even if she is not revealing anything of herself. May Allah have mercy upon the great Tabi’i Sufyan ath-Thawri , who said, “There is nothing better for a woman than her home, even if she is very old” (At-Tahawi: Mukhtasar Ikhtilaf al-‘Ulama). Simply leaving her home could be a fitnah for her, for those men who see her, or for both her and the men, especially if she speaks with them. For this reason, Allah  said to the wives of the Prophet , “So do not be soft in speech, lest someone with a disease in his heart becomes desirous” (Al-Ahzab 32), and being soft in speech means to speak weakly with a soft voice, the result of which is that “someone with a disease in his heart becomes desirous.” If this is said of someone in the generation of the Prophet  and his noble companions , which was the best of generations, then what about in our time, a time of fitan and grievous sin? Indeed, ‘Amrah narrated that ‘Aishah  said, “If Allah’s Messenger  saw what women have devised, he would prevent them from going to the masjid just as the women of Bani Israil were prevented.” ‘Amrah was then asked, “Were [the women of Bani Israil] prevented from going to the masjid?” He replied, “Yes” (Reported by al-Bukhari and Muslim). Subhanallah! This is what ‘Aishah – the scholar of fiqh and hadith  – concluded based on what she saw of innovations and transgressions from some of the women in her era. What if she were to have witnessed our time?! Rather, what if the Prophet  were to see what the women of today – other than those whom Allah has saved – are doing?! Those who like to wander about the pasturelands of shubuhat (doubtful matters) should place the aforementioned statement of Umm al-Muminin ‘Aishah directly in front of their eyes when they give fatawa regarding rulings related to women, fatawa that have caused women to leave their homes without any regulations, for no need, benefit, or necessity, even multitudes of times in a single day, rather, even if she were in ‘iddah, mourning a husband who has passed away! Imam Ahmad  was asked about women going out for the two Eids, to which he replied, “I do not like that.” Ibnul-Mubarak  said, “I dislike that women go out these days during the two Eids” (At-Tirmidhi: As-Sunan). Abu Hanifah said, “Women were allowed to go out to the Eid prayers. As for today, I dislike that they do so” (Ibn ‘Abdil-Barr: At-Tamhid).1 If these fuqaha – for the sake of repelling evils they perceived then – disliked a woman’s going out to perform a great deed in Islam, how about her going out time and again in our era, until she becomes infamous for doing so? Allah  described the Hur al-‘In in the Quran as “restricted to pavilions” (Ar-Rahman 72). Al-Qurtubi said, “His saying ‘restricted’ means confined and covered, and ‘to pavilions’ means dome-like compartments covered with cloth. These women do not wander the streets. This is what Ibn ‘Abbas said.” The Jannah is perfect, containing no fitnah, no perversion, and no deviance, and yet the Hur are restricted to pavilions for their husbands, who will be the only ones who see them. Finally, the Muslim man must remember that his wives are part of his flock, for whom he is responsible. The man should not let his wife have free rein in this regards. Instead, he can prevent her if she goes out too often. May Allah be pleased with ‘Umar, who would have prevented one of his wives from going to the masjid, due to his protective jealousy for her, if it were not for the hadith of the Prophet  against doing so. Ibn ‘Umar narrated, “One of ‘Umar’s women would pray the Fajr and ‘Isha prayers in the masjid, so it was said to her, ‘Why do you go out, while you know that ‘Umar dislikes so and is jealous?’ She said, ‘Why does he not forbid me then?’ They said, ‘What prevents him is the saying of Allah’s Messenger, ‘Do not prevent the maidservants of Allah from the masajid of Allah’” (Reported by al- Bukhari and Muslim). Yes, there is nothing wrong with Muslim women visiting each other, nor with keeping families ties, nor with her going to the market. However, nothing should be done in excess. Going out should be occasional in comparison to the default rule, which is that she stays at home. The believing woman in her own room is the closest she can be to her Lord in this life, and all praise belongs to Allah, the Lord of the creation.