Indeed, all praise is due to Allah. We praise Him, seek His aid and forgiveness, and seek refuge with Allah from the evil of our souls and the consequences of our deeds. Whomsoever Allah guides, none can misguide, and whomsoever He misguides, none can guide. I bear witness that there is no god but Allah alone, without partner, and I bear witness that Muhammad is His slave and messenger. As for what follows. “When the believers saw the [war] parties, they said, ‘This is what Allah and His Messenger had promised us, and Allah and His Messenger spoke the truth.’ And it increased them only in faith and submission” (Al-Ahzab 22). Yes, indeed, it is the promise of Allah that He has made and His news that He has affirmed, for here is the disbelieving world today having mobilized, called out, formed coalitions and parties, and gathered all its strength, partners, allies, and awliya [patrons] to wage war against Islam and its people and to plot against the believers and their religion with all means available and with everything it can muster of military equipment – whether for air, land, or sea – all this in a rapid endeavor to extinguish the light of Allah, in enmity towards His religion and methodology on the earth, and due to their fear and terror that the people of Islam and Sunnah would have their Khilafah and their strength return to them, and would have consolidation and be manifest in the land once more as was the case the first time around. This fiery battle, all-encompassing war, and major jihad which the Islamic State is engaged in today does not increase us – inshaallah – except in strong faith and firm conviction that all this is but a precursor to the solid victory and a sign of the clear conquest that Allah has promised His slaves, for indeed, we examined the Book of Allah and the lengthy history of this Ummah’s jihad against its enemies, and saw that the clear sign of our enemy’s destruction and eradication being near is the day they embark on war and declare it against Allah, His Messenger, and His religion, harm His slaves and awliya, and strive to expel them from the land, which belongs to Allah and which He makes whom He wills of His slaves inherit. Allah said, “Indeed, they were about to drive you from the land to evict you therefrom. And then [when they do], they will not remain [there] after you, except for a little” (Al-Isra 76). Indeed, the beginning of our victory, as well as its greatest and most noble part, is when our enemy reaches his utmost extreme in mobilizing, forming parties, acting boastfully, and increasing his numbers, for at that point Allah defends His slaves and the effects of His strength, His might, and His power appear. Allah said, “Pharaoh sent among the cities people to gather the masses, [and said], ‘Indeed, those [followers of Musa] are but a small band, and indeed, they are enraging us, and indeed, we are all wary of them.’ So We thus removed them from gardens, springs, treasures, and an honorable station. And We had Bani Israil inherit it. So they pursued them at sunrise. And when the two companies saw one another, the companions of Musa said, ‘Indeed, we will be overtaken!’ [Musa] said, ‘No! Indeed, my Lord is with me; He will guide me.’ Then We inspired to Musa, ‘Strike the sea with your staff,’ and it parted, and each portion was like a great towering mountain. And We advanced the pursuers thereto. And We saved Moses and those with him, all together. Then We drowned the others. Indeed in that is a sign, but most of them were not to be believers. And indeed, your Lord – He is the Exalted in Might, the Merciful” (Ash-Shu’ara 53-68). Allah also said, “When the messengers despaired and were certain that they had been denied, there came to them Our victory, and whoever We willed was saved. And Our punishment cannot be repelled from the people who are criminals” (Yusuf 110). O slaves of Allah, indeed, faith will not be complete in the soul of the Jama’ah of the Muslims until the Jama’ah is exposed to – and makes preparations for – jihad against mankind over the matter of this faith and confronting the people of falsehood with all their strength, while exposing itself in that jihad and struggle to the hammers of tribulation and the bitterness of hardship, being patient in both victory and defeat, and being shaken and afflicted with fear. Then it remains firm and does not doubt, remains upright and does not bend, and persists upon the rightly guided path of its faith, inshaallah. And if not for these parties and this jihad, faith would have weakened and not increased, the hearts would have become corrupt and not upright, and we would have seen the people’s souls becoming stagnant, ambitions sagging, and faith shriveling, and this is how the situation becomes when we are afflicted with luxury. “If it were not for Allah checking [some] people by means of others, the earth would have been corrupted, but Allah is full of bounty to the creation” (Al-Baqarah 251). Indeed, the enemies of Allah – the Jews, Christians, atheists, Rafidah, apostates, and all the nations of disbelief – dedicated their media, wealth, armies, and vehicles to wage war against the Muslims and the mujahidin in Ninawa Wilayah after seeing it as one of the bases and beacons of Islam in the shade of the Khilafah. Seeing the Muslims living in honor and security therein deprived them of sleep, and they were burdened by seeing an example of Islamic rule being realized for the people, one that they could see and live, whose shade they could seek, and whose goodness and blessing they could enjoy. And this is what they fear most, because it is the path to spreading the authority of Islam and expanding its territory, and the path to having the people enter it. Therefore, O people of Ninawa in general, and O mujahidin in particular, fear Allah, fear Allah concerning the religion of Allah. Beware of becoming weak in waging jihad against your enemy and repelling them, for indeed, this will undo the bonds of Islam and extinguish the light of truth. O muhajirin and ansar, proceed forward with your foresight and be patient upon what you have resolved. Be patient with the bitterness, for it is as if the Ummah’s division will be healed soon, the word of goodness and justice will be mended shortly, and the truth will repel falsehood, for indeed, there will be another day after this one, and patience brings the best result to all affairs. Allah said, “[Their] assembly will be defeated, and they will turn their backs [in retreat]” (Al-Qamar 45). Allah also said, “You wished that the unarmed party would be yours [to engage]. But Allah intended to establish the truth by His words and to eliminate the disbelievers, that He should establish the truth and abolish falsehood, even if the criminals disliked it” (Al-Anfal 7-8). O soldiers of the Khilafah, if you stand before America’s planes and allies, then stand with steadfastness, relying upon Him in whose hand is the domain of the heavens and the earth, the one before whom “there is no creature but that He holds its forelock. Indeed, my Lord is on a straight path” (Hud 56). Say, “Allah is sufficient for us and the best disposer of affairs,” for it is a statement Ibrahim said when he was cast into the fire, and which Muhammad uttered when the people said to him, “Indeed, the people have gathered against you, so fear them” (Ali ‘Imran 173), and know that if the sky were to clamp down on the earth, Allah would make an opening for the believers. Therefore, O battalions of inghimasiyyin, O caravans of istishhadiyyin, and detachments of iqtihamiyyin, O seekers of shahadah, the best reward, and more than that, O you who strive towards the Gardens and the pleasure of Allah, go forth with Allah’s blessing, for indeed, this war is your war. Turn the disbelievers’ night into day, bring destruction to their homes, make their blood flow like rivers, for therein you will find the richest share of reward and means for achieving great success, attaining the companionship of those upon whom Allah has bestowed favor: the prophets, the truthful, the martyrs, and the righteous. And excellent are those as companions. And let your condition declare, “I hastened to You, my Lord, that You be pleased” (Taha 84). May Allah reward you with good on behalf of Islam and the Muslims. You have made the disbelievers taste horrors and have rubbed their noses in swamps. May we be sacrificed for you. You were, and continue to be – after Allah – the best source of support, strength, and aid. O Ahlus-Sunnah in Iraq, is it that every single time you show no sense? You tasted humiliation and disgrace to the extent that you grazed on it, and you strayed just as Bani Israil strayed before you. Do you not see the Rafidah, every day, afflicting you with the worst of torment? They raid your lands under the pretext of waging war against the Islamic State, then they don’t depart until they’ve either killed your men and taken your women and children prisoner or until they’ve driven them out. Do you not see Iraq having its cities emptied of Ahlus- Sunnah and filled with the most despicable of Allah’s creation and the most evil of those to who have treaded the earth? Look at their banners when they fight you, listen to their slogans when they surround your lands, contemplate their deeds when they expel you from your land, and listen to their cries when they shout with their calls to raid all the lands of Ahlus-Sunnah, from your Iraq to your Sham to your Najd, even to your Yemen. O Ahlus-Sunnah, your rulers in the region have practiced the lowest and most despicable form of treachery history has known, for they sold your issue and surrendered your affair and your land to your enemy. Here are your territories being divided up by the disbelieving atheist, the mushrik Rafidi, and the spiteful Nusayri in an open and malicious Batini spectacle that the entire world sees and hears of. Here is Halab, facing the most tyrannical and vicious Nusayri campaign with kafir, Magian, and Russian support, through which they aim to establish an alternative, Nusayri entity, all in the midst of the treachery of the apostate factions, which are busy fighting the Islamic State and which strive to remove Allah’s rule from the earth for the sake of the interests of their masters and backers from among the nations of kufr. And the plots and schemes of the Romans continue to proceed forth – even in the peninsula of Prophet Muhammad – to put the Rafidah in power over its outer edges, in the shade of the extensive corruption the government of Al Salul engages in to secularize the land, turn all its people into disbelievers, spread immorality among them, and topple anything that can be counted as being from the signs of the Shari’ah and its people. And they did not stop there. Rather, they took part – through actual military participation – with the nations of kufr in waging war against Islam and the Sunnah in Iraq and Sham. Indeed, they are the head of every tribulation and the reason for every calamity. Therefore, O men of the Arabian Peninsula, O grandsons of the Sahabah, attack them, following one attack with another. Before you are the enemies of Allah. Before you are their security personnel, their soldiers, and their policemen. Before you are their cronies and their journalists. Before you are their leaders, their ministers, and their media trumpets. Remember the final will of your prophet that “there cannot exist two religions in the peninsula of the Arabs” (Reported by Malik and others). O Ahlus-Sunnah! After Allah, you have nothing but the Islamic State to protect your religion, safeguard your authority, and bolster your strength, a state wherein you can either live with glory or die with dignity, without the lowly Rafidah, wicked Nusayriyyah, and vile atheists daring to touch your honor. O Muslims in the east and the west! Throughout our jihad and struggle against the coalitions of kufr, the secular, apostate state of Turkey had been despicable and cowardly. It would show one face while attempting to conceal another, seeking to achieve its own interests and ambitions in the north of Iraq and the fringes of Sham, only to retract out of fear that the mujahidin would engulf its lands with fiery operations and scorching battles. Turkey then deliberated, calculated, and observed. They then scowled, rushed, and moved with arrogance. They then joined the campaign against us as amputated hyenas would while supported by Crusader coalition warplanes and under their shade, taking advantage of the mujahidin being occupied by the battle in defense of the lands of Islam and against the nations of kufr. They assumed that their own lands were safe from the sons of tawhid and lions of jihad. Indeed, their heedlessness will be their destruction. O muwahhidin! Turkey today has become a target for your operations and priority for your jihad, so seek Allah’s assistance and attack it. Turn their security into panic and their prosperity into dread, and add it to the scorching zones of your combat. O troops of the Khilafah in Sham, the Turkish kafir soldier has come to you while his blood is vile like that of a dog. Show them your strength, burn them with the fire of your wrath, and take revenge for your religion and tawhid from the brothers of Shaytan, role models for the murtaddin, and allies of the atheists. Their shirk and nifaq will never overcome your tawhid and iman. And verily Allah is with the people of taqwa. This is what Allah and His Messenger promised us. Indeed, the Murtadd Brotherhood has emerged as a poisoned spearhead carried by the Crusaders in their war against the Khilafah. The kufr of this deviant sect did not stop at their committing shirk with Allah in constitutions and legislations, contending with Allah in His rule, and consenting to the kufr of the nations of kufr. Its kufr continued until it became a sect having no religion, like the zanadiqah and Batiniyyah. Rather, it has become a firm, military arm of the Crusader coalition against Islam and its people, an arm the Crusaders could not dispense with on the ground. “Their brothers increase them in deviance, then they do not stop” (Al-A’raf 202). Look at Iraq, Sham, Libya, Tunisia, and other lands, for you will not find among the Brotherhood except a mushrik partaking in man-made laws and kufri legislation, or one standing in the ranks of the Crusader, Rafidi, atheist, or secularist armies, fighting violently against the mujahidin who strive for Allah’s cause in order to establish Allah's rule on earth. They are truly the brothers of Shaytan and the laboring agents of the Crusaders. May Allah kill them! How deluded they are! O mujahidin for Allah’s cause! Know that today you are the armor and strong fort of Islam. Beware and, again, beware – may Allah have mercy upon you – that Islam and Muslims be hurt from your direction, for the sunan of Allah are not partial to anyone. Allah has employed you and has made you inheritors of the earth in order to see how you act. So practice fear of Allah and obedience to Him to gain His support and promise. He said, “O you who have believed! If you fear Allah, He will grant you a criterion and will remove your misdeeds from you and forgive you. And Allah is the possessor of great bounty” (Al-Anfal 29). Avoid disobeying Him and opposing His command, as the consequence for doing so is severe for all of you. I shall read to you now the advice that Amirul-Muminin ‘Umar Ibn al-Khattab sent to Sa’d Ibn Abi Waqqas and those troops with him. He said, “I command you and those troops with you to fear Allah in all conditions, for indeed fearing Allah is the best weapon against the enemy and the strongest strategy of war. I command you and those with you to be more vigilant against committing sin than you are against your enemy, for verily the sins of an army are more dreadful to them than their enemy. Truly, the Muslims are only supported because of their enemy’s disobedience to Allah. If it were not for that, we would have no power against them. Our numbers are not like their numbers. Our equipment is not like their equipment. If we were equal to them in committing sin, they would have favor over us in might, and if we do not defeat them due to our virtue, we will not overcome them by our might. Know that as you march forth, there are angels from Allah who know what you are doing, so have shame before them and do not act in disobedience to Allah while you are fighting for His cause. Do not say, ‘Our enemy is worse than us, so they will never be given power over us, even if we were to sin,’ for many a people were conquered by those who were worse than them, just as when the Magian kuffar overpowered Bani Israil when they had committed what displeased Allah. Thus, the Magians ravaged their lands and it was a promise fulfilled. Ask Allah for help against yourselves just as you ask Him for support against your enemy. I ask that of Allah for us and for you.” This ends his words. O mujahidin! Your Prophet said, “Verily you will be victorious [over your enemy], will achieve [ghanimah], and will conquer [many lands], so whoever witnesses that must fear Allah, command virtue, and forbid vice” (Reported by Ahmad, at-Tirmidhi, and others from Ibn Mas’ud). Here you are today, and Allah has made you inherit this blessed land and He has burdened you with protecting it, defending it, and establishing Allah’s rule therein. So beware of Shaytan causing you to slip by withdrawing from land or retreating from the frontlines. Rather, be patient, persevere, perform ribat, and remain steadfast. Do not move towards humiliation after Allah has given you glory. Do not replace that which is better for that which is worse. Do not fall into lowliness and inferiority after you have risen far beyond that. Know that the price of your remaining in your land with your glory is a thousand times less than the price of your retreating in humiliation. Allah said, “Say, ‘Fleeing will never benefit you if you should flee from death or from being killed; and thereafter, you would only have a short enjoyment’” (Al-Ahzab 16), and Allah’s Messenger said, “Spending a day and a night in ribat is better than fasting and praying for a month. If one were to die while doing so, his deed which he used to do would continue to be counted for him, his sustenance would be brought to him, and he would be safe from the questioner in the grave” (Reported by Muslim from Salman al-Farisi). If you have left a land due to your sins, reclaim it by repenting and fearing your Lord, for it is only right that you do so. Remember that your enemy is fighting for the cause of taghut, while you are fighting for Allah’s cause. They are fighting for the sake of the word of kufr, while you are fighting for the sake of Allah’s word. They are fighting for the sake of some small portion of the Dunya, while you are fighting for the sake of great reward and a transaction that will save you from a painful torment. They are fighting with obscenity and infidelity in their hearts, while you are fighting with iman and the Quran in yours. They are fighting, and they shall end in the Fire, while you are fighting and your end is to be close to ar-Rahman – inshaallah – in a garden as wide as the heavens and the earth. “So which of the two parties has more right to security, if only you knew? They who believe and do not cover their belief with oppression will have security, and they are the guided ones” (Al-An’am 81-82). This is what Allah and His Messenger promised us. I then warn you of disputation and disagreement between yourselves in both knowledge and action, while you are on the same side, declaring the tawhid of your Lord, waging jihad against your enemy, and striving to make Allah’s word supreme in the land. “O you who believe! When you encounter an enemy, stand firm and remember Allah much that you may be successful. Obey Allah and His Messenger, and do not dispute, lest you falter and your strength departs; and be patient. Indeed, Allah is with the patient” (Al-Anfal 45-46). So disputation is a cause of faltering and of the enemy’s victory over you. And disagreement is a means for evil and enmity to come between you. Do not be like those nations who passed before you, who took a portion and left another, so Allah put enmity and hatred between them. He said, “They forgot a portion of what they were reminded of. So We stirred up enmity and hatred among them until the Day of Resurrection. And Allah will inform them about what they used to do” (Al-Maidah 14). Beware of disagreeing with your leaders. Listen to them as a means to get closer to Allah, and obey them as an act of worship for Allah, as long as they do not command you with sin. And know that your opposition to them is a manifestation of Jahiliyyah. It was only through Islam, the Jama’ah, listening, and obeying that Allah gave glory to you. “Remember the favor of Allah upon you when you were enemies and He brought your hearts together and you became, by His favor, brothers. And you were on the edge of a pit of the Fire, and He saved you from it. Thus does Allah make clear to you His verses that you may be guided” (Al ‘Imran 103). Remember and reflect over the statement of Allah, “Indeed, Allah will not change the condition of a people until they change what is in themselves” (Ar-Ra’d 11). To the soldiers of the Khilafah in Khurasan, Bengal, Indonesia, Qawqaz, the Philippines, Yemen, the Arabian Peninsula, Sinai, Egypt, Algeria, Tunisia, Libya, Somalia, and West Africa: Know that today, you are the supports of Islam and the pegs of the Khilafah in the earth. You have stunned the nations of kufr with your jihad, patience, and steadfastness. You have taught people how the paths of victory are found in unity, obedience, and expanding the greater Muslim Jama’ah amid a world engaged in the Jahili ignorance of much disunity and obstinate division. You have enraged the nations of kufr with your coming together and waging jihad, just as they have equally been enraged by the rise of the Khilafah. As such, they will strive to extinguish the light of Allah between you by spreading the causes of division and discord, so be patient and persevere, and do not fear. Remain steadfast and do not flee when engaging the enemy. If you have patience, then Allah will empower you, support you, and give you a firm foothold. Know that Jannah is beneath the shades of swords. Know that if some of your leaders are killed, then Allah will replace them with those who are equal or better than them. Allah will not neglect you, so do not be disheartened. Truly, Allah is with us. O mujahidin in Sirte, those who have been patient during hardship and suffering! You have taught the enemies lessons through your patience. You have written pages with your pure blood about the high status of glory and steadfastness. Crusader Europe has not ceased in their ambition to attack the cradle of the Khilafah and fortress of Islam in Iraq and Sham, but then you shook their security with your rise and overturned their policies with your jihad. You became the insurmountable obstacle and solid rock upon which their resolve would break and by which their plans were ruined. Indeed, your enemy is hurt as you are hurt, but you can expect from Allah that for which they cannot hope. So beware of leaving the scenes of your battle and positions of your ribat, as your enemy is on the verge of either leaving in fatigue or advancing towards his destruction. And we will not miss this opportunity to remind our Muslim brothers everywhere that if the roads for making hijrah to Iraq and Sham are closed or confined, then Allah has made an open path for them to make hijrah to one of those other blessed wilayat, where they might uphold another solid structure of Islam and obtain the merit of precedence in supporting the religion of Allah and making His word supreme. He said, “O My slaves who believe! Indeed My earth is spacious, so worship only Me” (Al-‘Ankabut 56). To our brothers, those holding onto embers, whom Allah has tested with captivity: By Allah, while we are in this great engagement against the enemies of Allah, we have not forgotten you nor shall we ever forget you. How could we, while you are what keeps us without sleep and you are a concern that does not part! We ask that Allah make your liberation at our hands and the destruction of your prisons through our weapons. That is not something difficult for Allah to do, so you must beseech Allah by means of your tribulation. And remember that Allah is preparing you for a day on which you will support your religion and your state. I prompt you to make great supplications for your brothers in the Islamic State, that Allah gives them right guidance in their affairs, that He provides them with the best of His provision, and that He keeps them in need of none but Himself. May Allah free you from captivity, remove your distress, mend your wounds, strengthen your resolve, grant you relief, and make a way out for you. O Muslims everywhere! I condole you, as I condole the mujahidin in general, regarding the killing of the shuyukh and leaders. At their head is Shaykh Abu Muhammad al-‘Adnani and Shaykh Abu Muhammad al-Furqan – may Allah have mercy upon them and make their abode in the heights of Firdaws. They were from the best of our ministers and leaders due to what Allah honored them with of good precedent, long-standing excellence, seriousness in erecting the structure of the Khilafah, and upholding Allah’s rule on earth, until their time therein ended and they had fulfilled what they were charged with. We consider them so and Allah is their judge. Yet we give you glad tidings, by Allah’s grace and favor, that the Khilafah did not stumble on account of their deaths, let alone the wheel of jihad coming to a stop due to their loss. Rather, those pure bodies were nothing more than sacrifices that we placed as offerings before Allah, seeking His pleasure and requesting clear victory and near conquest, by Allah’s permission. For we have learned in the Book of Allah that the martyrdom of the leaders and righteous men is the closest door leading to consolidation on the earth and reward in the Dunya and the Akhirah. Allah said about the condition of the prophets and their followers, “How many a prophet was killed while having with him many men very fearful of Allah. But they never lost assurance due to what afflicted them in the cause of Allah, nor did they weaken or submit. And Allah loves the steadfast. And their only words were that they said, ‘Our Lord, forgive us our sins and the excess in our affairs, plant firmly our feet, and give us victory over the disbelieving people.’ So Allah gave them the reward of this Dunya and the good reward of the Akhirah. And Allah loves the doers of good” (Al ‘Imran 146-148). O Allah, Revealer of the Book, Mover of the Clouds, Vanquisher of the Factions!  Vanquish them and support us against them! O Allah, punish the criminal kuffar, those who avert from Your cause, who belie Your messengers, and who fight against Your awliya. O Allah, help us against them with years like those of Yusuf. O Allah, eradicate them, kill them while dispersed, and do not leave any of them alive! O Allah, scatter their multitudes and divide their unity! O Allah, whoever seeks to harm us, our religion, and our jihad, then make his harm come back at him, until he is destroyed by his own hands! O Allah, plot for us and not against us! Guide us, facilitate our guidance, and support us against those who transgress against us! You are our Protector! How excellent is the Protector and the Supporter! And our final call is that all praise belongs to Allah, Lord of creation.