Abu ‘Abdillah was a very sociable, lively, friendly, gentle person with a soft heart and a blessed smile. He was one of those characters whom everyone liked. He was never arrogant, regardless of whatever position he held. He was always humble towards others and would recognize his own mistakes and faults, and it was for this reason that he was dearly loved by many. Anyone who saw him could not help but to be reminded of wala and bara and see the love and concern he had for the religion and the Ummah. He was gentle towards the believers and harsh towards the kuffar, with his severity towards kufr and its people being a trait of his that was internationally known, due to his many efforts in giving global da’wah, making him an inspiration for many Muslims around the world. The fact that he was active in da’wah, however, didn’t reduce him to being someone who just talked on and on without backing up his words with deeds, as is the case with many du’at nowadays. Rather, he was a man of action who not only “talked the talk,” but also “walked the walk.” He was very brave hearted, someone who stood firm and remained sincere in what he called for, not fearing the blame of critics. He had a strong determination and stubbornness in following the truth and was swift to sacrifice what he held dear, seeking Allah’s contentment, spending both his wealth and his life for the sake of Allah. He was born and raised in Britain, the youngest of five siblings. One can imagine the mischief and corruption a young man can fall into growing up in the lands of the Crusaders, where evil and corruption is widespread and where the ills of society are glamorized. It was the events of 9/11 that would inspire him to begin studying and practicing his religion. He then began preaching Islam to people, calling them to the tawhid of Allah, publically condemning the British government for the many atrocities committed against Muslims both locally and abroad, and calling for the implementation of Allah’s Shari’ah and the revival of the Khilafah.1 Due to his da’wah, he not only became well known in the community, but also became well known to the British authorities. Rather than deterring him or frightening him, however, this only spurred him on and made him more determined to call to the truth. The Messenger said, “He who possesses three characteristics has tasted the sweetness of iman: That Allah and His Messenger are more beloved to him than anything else, that he loves a person, only loving him for Allah’s sake, and that he hates returning to kufr after Allah saved him therefrom just as he hates being thrown into fire” (Reported by al-Bukhari and Muslim from Anas). Abu ‘Abdillah loved Allah and His Messenger more than anything or anyone else. An incident demonstrating this was when he was attending a da’wah road show and stabbed a kafir in the back of the head with a pen for insulting the Prophet. He did this on a busy street in the heart of Brtian without any care for the consequences of his actions or any fear of the blame of critics, for he understood his duty and knew it was a tremendous honor and privilege to be allowed to defend the Prophet. Shortly after this incident, Abu ‘Abdillah left for the blessed land of Sham to join the jihad, despite already having attempted to do so before. Not being content with the life of humiliation, living under the rule of the kuffar, Abu ‘Abdillah was determined to leave behind his loved ones, along with the rest of the Dunya, to be able to live a life of honor. However, when he arrived in Sham, he did not find himself in the correct company. It was just at the beginning of the Syrian Sahwah and he ended up with the wrong group, a supposedly “Islamist” faction. He became very confused and disheartened as he witnessed the practice of many sins amongst these so-called “mujahidin,” but most importantly, he later saw that the group wasn’t implementing the Shari’ah in the territories over which it had taken control. He was a man who could recognize the truth when he saw it and he clearly saw that these people were upon falsehood. He was disheartened, but he did not lose hope in Allah’s mercy, and after some time, and after traveling back and forth through Dar al-Kufr and facing various tribulations, he finally succeeded – by Allah’s grace – in reaching the Islamic State and joining the ranks of its mujahidin. After completing the training camp, Abu ‘Abdillah was sent to the frontlines for ribat. He was involved in a few battles, including the Islamic State’s wide scale offensive in the northern Halab countryside during the course of which several major towns were liberated. He was a courageous mujahid who would not allow any signs of fear to show on his face or in his voice and actions, and he had full conviction that victory does not rely on numbers or the power of one’s weapons, but rather, in the correctness of one’s ‘aqidah and in the strength of one’s tawhid. He loved performing ribat, for he understood the great reward found in the perseverance and endurance it requires, with the murabitin sometimes staying in a village for up to a month at a time, keeping guard, with no one around them. During Ramadan, he made much du’a, asking Allah to grant him shahadah in that blessed month, but he did not attain shahadah that year. Little did he know, however, that his du’a had been accepted, inshaallah. Shortly after Ramadan, he was injured, having been shot in the ear during a battle in Halab Wilayah, as a result of which he lost his hearing in one ear. Even whilst recovering, he didn’t like to waste time, so he would spend his days memorizing the Quran and giving nasihah to the brothers around him. His eagerness and desire to resume his jihad then led him to joining tasni’ (explosives manufacturing), even though he was still recovering from his injuries. On the first day of working in tasni’, there was a work-related explosion at his site. Abu ‘Abdillah sustained severe burns to his face, neck, chest, and hands. Despite him still being in the recovery process from his previous wound, Allah tested him again with another, more severe injury. The test was very difficult, and he remained in the burn unit for almost two months. The burns he sustained were very intense, especially on his hands, even to the point that all of his fingernails melted off. He became handicapped and was in constant pain, to the point that he would pass out from the intensity of the pain. In the initial stages of the injury, Abu ‘Abdillah endured a lot of hardship and had to rely upon others to help him do almost everything. He would always apologize and feel as though he was a burden on those close to him, since he was always used to doing things for others. The recovery process was very tough, but Abu ‘Abdillah remained steadfast and patient, remembering that this was a test and a means of purification from Allah. He was a man who lived for the religion of Allah, and injuries would not stop him from supporting the cause of Allah. Rather, his burns were a constant reminder of Hellfire for him, which is something that Abu ‘Abdillah would always think about. Abu ‘Abdillah then began working in da’wah, delivering lectures to the brothers and teaching them the religion, but his heart maintained a strong yearning to return to the battlefield, and this yearning continued to intensify as he witnessed the brothers around him all attaining shahadah one after another. He longed for the same, and after almost one year, Abu ‘Abdillah finally received permission to join the brothers in Ramadan in the fight against the Crusader coalition forces, although he was still suffering from his injuries and had a shar’i excuse to remain behind. His injuries were not hidden, and those around him could see him constantly banging his hands in order to numb the relentless pain of the new skin growth, and despite his ordeal, he longed to fight for the cause of Allah, to kill and to be killed. He requested to be placed on the list for istishhadi operatives, as he was determined to attain shahadah in the month of Ramadan. This was something he long wished for even back in Dar al-Kufr. He would always say, “Imagine on the Day of Judgment you come before Allah having been completely blown to pieces, and then Allah puts you back together and asks you, ‘Why did you do this to yourself?’ and you answer, ‘I did this for You, my Lord.’” Indeed, an individual’s time and place of death is decreed and destined for him no matter what he plans, and so despite Abu ‘Abdillah’s efforts to reach the area of Sirrin in Halab Wilayah in order to join the fight against the Crusader coalition forces, and despite his strong desire and intention to carry out an istishhadi operation, Allah had something else destined for him. On the 17th of Ramadan 1436AH, and whilst in the city of Raqqah, he was killed by a US drone strike, attaining shahadah thereby in the blessed month for which he prayed. We consider him a shahid and Allah is his judge. May Allah elevate his status and accept him among the siddiqqin and the best of the shuhada, and grant him comfort and tranquility in the gardens of Jannah.