Allah is the Judge, the Rule is His Indeed, the statement of tawhid (la ilaha illallah), which negates ilahiyyah (the right to be worshiped) from all but Allah and affirms it for Allah alone, nullifies all forms of major shirk – in rububiyyah (lordship), uluhiyyah (godhood), and al-asma was-sifat (names and attributes) – for the ilah (god) is the one that deserves to be worshiped and obeyed due to “those attributes it possesses necessitating that it be loved with the utmost love and submitted to with the utmost submission” (Taysir al-‘Aziz al-Hamid). Thus, whoever does not single out Allah with ilahiyyah in all forms of worship and obedience has nullified the shahadah of tawhid and – through his actions – has belied what he claims of belief in the tawhid of rububiyyah and al-asma was-sifat. From among the different forms of worship that Allah has singled out for mention in His Book and in the Sunnah of His Prophet is the act of seeking judgment from His legislation alone and ruling by it alone. This is what is necessitated by one’s belief that Allah is “the most just of judges” (Hud 45) and “the best of judges” (Al-An’am 57), that there is none more just in word than Allah, that there is none better than Him in judgment, and that He has no partner in legislation. The evidences for tawhid in rule and legislation are very numerous. The author of “Adwa al-Bayan” said, “Committing shirk in Allah’s rule is like committing shirk in His worship. Allah said concerning His rule, ‘He does not have shirk in His rule with anyone’ (Al-Kahf 26). In the recitation of Ibn ‘Amir, one of the seven reciters, it comes in the form of a forbiddance: ‘Do not commit shirk with anyone in His rule.’ Likewise, Allah said concerning the act of committing shirk in His worship, ‘Whoever longs to meet His Lord – let him do righteous deeds and not commit shirk with anyone in the worship of his Lord’ (Al-Kahf 110). Both commands are equal, as is clearly seen.” He then said, “What this noble verse entails – that rule belongs to Allah alone, without partner, according to both recitations – has been further explained in other verses.” He then mentioned from among them Allah’s statement, “The rule is only for Allah. He has commanded that you worship only Him. That is the correct religion, but most of the people do not know” (Yusuf 40), and His statement, “Is it the rule of Jahiliyyah they want? But who is better than Allah in rule for a people who have firm faith” (Al-Maidah 50), and His statement, “Is it other than Allah I should seek as a judge while it is He who has revealed to you the Book explained in detail?” (Al-An’am 114). He then said, “What is understood from these verses… is that the followers of the rulings of lawmakers who legislate what Allah has not permitted are committing shirk with Allah. This understanding was made clear in other verses, such as in Allah’s statement concerning those who follow Shaytan’s legislation in permitting maytah [the meat of unslaughtered animals] under the pretext that they were slaughtered by Allah: ‘Do not eat of that upon which the name of Allah has not been mentioned, for indeed, it is grave disobedience. Indeed the devils inspire their awliya [patrons] to dispute with you, and if you were to obey them, indeed, you would be mushrikin’ (Al-An’am 121). So he declared them to be mushrikin due to their obedience [to taghut legislation], and this shirk in obedience – following legislation that rivals what Allah has legislated – is what is meant by worshiping Shaytan in Allah’s statement, ‘Did I not enjoin upon you, O children of Adam, that you not worship Shaytan – [for] indeed, he is a clear enemy to you – and that you worship [only] Me? This is a straight path’ (Yasin 60-61).” He then said, “For this reason, Allah named as ‘shuraka’ [partners] those who are obeyed in the sins they beautify. He said, ‘Likewise, the ‘shuraka’ of the mushrikin have beautified to them the killing of their children in order to bring about their destruction and to mislead them in their religion. And if Allah had willed, they would not have done so. So leave them and that which they devise’ (Al-An’am 137). The Prophet explained this to ‘Adiy Ibn Hatim when ‘Adiy asked about Allah’s statement, ‘They took their rabbis and monks as lords besides Allah’ (At-Tawbah 31). The Prophet explained to him that the clergy permitted for them what Allah had prohibited, and prohibited for them what Allah had permitted, and the Jews and Christians followed them in that regard, and that was their taking of their clergy as lords. From the most explicit of evidences concerning this is that Allah explained in Surat an-Nisa that He is amazed at the claim of faith from those who want to seek judgment from what Allah has not legislated, and that is only because their claim of having faith despite their desire to seek judgment from taghut reaches a level of lying so great that it is amazing, and this is in His statement, ‘Have you not seen those who claim to have believed in what was revealed to you and what was revealed before you? They wish to seek judgment from taghut, while they were commanded to disbelieve in it; and Shaytan wishes to lead them far astray’ (An-Nisa 60). Through these divine texts we have quoted, it becomes absolutely clear that none doubts the kufr and shirk of those who follow the manmade laws which Shaytan has legislated upon the tongues of his allies in opposition to what Allah has legislated upon the tongue of His messengers except one whose vision Allah has wiped out and whom He has blinded from seeing the light of the revelation like He did to the followers of the taghut legislators” (Adwa al-Bayan). As for Allah’s statement, “Is it other than Allah I should seek as a judge while it is He who has revealed to you the Book explained in detail?” (Al-An’am 114), then in pondering it there are many benefits. The author of “Adwa al-Bayan” said, “Some scholars mentioned that some of the kuffar asked the Prophet to seek judgment along with them from some of the soothsayers, as it was the custom of the Arabs – when they had disputes and disagreements – to seek judgment from some of the soothsayers, and Allah’s refuge is sought.” Allah then revealed this verse and ordered the Prophet “to completely denounce those who seek a judge other than the Creator of the heavens and the earth, who is the Just Judge, the Subtly Kind, the All Aware” (Al-‘Adhb an-Namir). A similar verse is found in Surat al-An’am. Allah said, “Say, ‘Is it other than Allah – the Creator of the heavens and the earth – I should take as a wali [guardian], while it is He who feeds and is not fed?’ Say, ‘Indeed, I have been commanded to be the first who submits [to Allah] and [was commanded], ‘Do not ever be of the mushrikin’” (Al-An’am 14). He also said, “Say, ‘Is it other than Allah I should want as a lord while He is the Lord of all things? No soul does evil except against itself, and no one shall bear another’s burden. Then to your Lord is your return, and He will inform you concerning that over which you used to differ’” (Al-An’am 164). He also said in Surat al-A’raf, “[Musa] said, ‘Is it other than Allah I should seek as a god for you while He has chosen you over all creation?’” (Al-A’raf 140). Ibnul-Qayyim said, “One’s being pleased with Allah as his lord means that he does not take a lord other than Allah, trusting in its management of affairs and appealing to it for his needs. Allah said, ‘Say, ‘Is it other than Allah I should want as a [rabb] lord while He is the Lord of creation?’ (Al-An’am 164). Ibn ‘Abbas said [explaining the meaning of rabb], ‘As a master and a god.’ The verse means, how can I seek a lord other than Him, when He is the Lord of creation? In the beginning of the surah, Allah said, ‘Is it other than Allah – the Creator of the heavens and the earth – I should take as a wali’’ (Al-An’am 14), meaning, as one worshiped, a supporter, a helper, and a refuge. This all is derived from wala [patronage], which entails love and obedience. In the middle of the surah, Allah said, ‘Is it other than Allah I should seek as a judge while it is He who has revealed to you the Book explained in detail?’ (Al-An’am 114), meaning, is it other than Allah I should want to judge between us, so that we seek his judgment concerning what we have differed on? ... If you were to contemplate these three verses as they should be contemplated, you would see that they correspond to being pleased with Allah as a lord, with Islam as a religion, and with Muhammad as a messenger… Many people are pleased with Allah as a lord and do not seek a lord other than Him, but are not pleased with Him alone as a wali and supporter. Rather, they take others beneath Him as awliya [guardians] believing that they bring them closer to Allah and that taking them as awliya is like taking a king’s close associates as awliya, and this is the essence of shirk. Rather, tawhid is that one not take other than Allah as a wali, and the Quran is filled with places describing the mushrikin as having taken awliya other than Allah… And many people seek other than Him as a judge from whom they seek judgment, to whom they present their dispute, and with whose judgment they are pleased. These three perspectives are the pillars of tawhid – that one not take other than Him as a lord, nor as a god, nor as a judge” (Madarij as-Salikin). Thus, he who seeks a judge other than Allah is a mushrik who believes in and worships the taghut just like one who seeks other than Him as a lord, a god, or a wali. What underscores this point is that Allah has ruled that whoever takes a legislator besides Him has made a rival for Him, and there is no difference between him and one who makes a partner for Allah in supplication or intercession. Allah said, “You have certainly come to Us alone as We created you the first time, and you have left whatever We bestowed upon you behind you. And We do not see with you your ‘intercessors’ whom you claimed to be partners with Allah. The bond between you has been severed. And what you used to claim has lost you” (Al-An’am 94). He also said, “Say, ‘Have you considered your ‘partners’ whom you invoke besides Allah? Show me what they have created from the earth, or have they partnership [with Him] in the heavens? Or have We given them a book so they are [standing] on evidence therefrom? [No], rather, the oppressors do not promise each other except delusion’ (Fatir 40). He also said, “Or do they have ‘partners’ who have legislated for them of religion that which Allah has not permitted? But if not for the decisive word, it would have been concluded between them. And indeed, the oppressors will have a painful torment” (Ash-Shura 21). He also said, “Likewise, the ‘partners’ of the mushrikin have beautified to them the killing of their children in order to bring about their destruction and to mislead them in their religion” (Al-An’am 137). Furthermore, Allah made tawhid in rule and legislation a proof against those who do not make tawhid of Him in worship, and made tawhid of rububiyyah and al-asma was-sifat a proof against those who do not practice tawhid of uluhiyyah. He said, “[Yusuf said,] ‘O [my] two cellmates, are divided lords better or Allah, the One, the Subduer? You worship not besides Him except [mere] names you and your fathers invented, names for which Allah has sent down no authority. The rule is only for Allah. He has commanded that you worship only Him. That is the correct religion, but most people do not know’” (Yusuf 39-40). He also said, “Recite to them the news of Ibrahim, when he said to his father and his people, ‘What do you worship?’ They said, ‘We worship idols and remain devoted to them. He said, ‘Do they hear you when you supplicate? Or do they benefit you, or do they harm?’ They said, ‘But we found our fathers doing thus.’ He said, ‘Then do you see what you have been worshiping, you and your ancient forefathers? Indeed, they are enemies to me, except the Lord of creation. It is He who created me and then guides me. And it is He who feeds me and gives me drink. And when I am ill, it is He who cures me, and who will cause me to die and then bring me to life, and who I hope will forgive me my sin on the Day of Recompense.’ [And he said,] ‘My Lord, grant me authority and join me with the righteous’” (Ash-Shu’ara 69-83). Moreover, those who worshiped rabbis and monks by making them partners with Allah in legislation and those who worshiped the Messiah by making him a part of Allah’s entity were equated by Allah, as He said, “They took their rabbis and monks as lords besides Allah as well as the Messiah, the son of Maryam. Whereas they were only commanded to worship one god; there is no god but Him. Exalted is He above whatever they partner with Him” (At-Tawbah 31). And when one of the Sahabah took the kunyah (nickname) of Abul-Hakam (“father of the judge”), the Prophet forbid him from so, saying, “Indeed, Allah is al-Hakam (the Judge) and the rule is His” (Reported by Abu Dawud and an-Nasai from Abu Shurayh). As for he who submits to the rule and legislation of the taghut, as is the case with those who vote in the democratic elections and referendums and those who seek judgment from courts judging by manmade laws, then such people believe in and worship taghut and have left the basis of Islam – the testimony that there is no god but Allah, that there is none deserving worship or obedience except Allah – as well as its reality – salamah (sincerity) and istislam (submission) to Allah – and whoever considers them to be Muslims, muwahhidin, abandoners of taghut, and disbelievers in it should review the religion of Islam before he is laid down in his grave. Our Lord, pour upon us patience, let us die as Muslims, and join us with the righteous. Amin.