The third cause for victory is listening and obeying the emir and following Allah’s order. Allah said, “Remember the blessing of Allah upon you and His covenant which He made with you, when you said, ‘We hear and we obey’” (Al-Maidah 7). ‘Ubadah Ibn as-Samit  said, “We gave bay’ah to the Prophet, pledging to listen and obey in times of delight and dislike, and in times of hardship and ease, and to do so selflessly; and to not dispute the command of those in authority unless we see blatant kufr, concerning which we have proof from Allah” (Reported by al-Bukhari and Muslim). Another narration has “pledging to listen and obey in times of liveliness and laziness.” Allah’s Messenger also said, “Listen and obey, even if a slave is appointed over you, leading you with the Book of Allah” (Reported by Muslim from Ummul-Husayn). Ibn Hajar said, concerning the ahadith in this chapter, “The command for obedience is regarding every emir, whether or not he is the Khalifah” (Fath al-Bari). The Prophet said, “I command you with five things with which Allah commanded me: the Jama’ah, listening, obeying, hijrah, and jihad” (Reported by Ahmad and at-Tirmidhi from al-Harith al-Ash’ari). I would like to stress here the matter of being truthful when listening and obeying as well as being serious when following Allah’s orders in times of dislike and hardship, for obedience in that which a person likes is a simple matter, by Allah’s help. The thing we warn of the most is disobedience regarding warfare, as we have seen its consequences more than once, and it has always been a cause for many woes. An example of this is the story of Allah’s Messenger with the army of the Sahabah at Uhud. He specified the position of each troop unit, placing the archers in a location from where they could watch their brothers’ backs and defend them from any enemy attempt to encircle them or any potential advance on them. He said to the archers with complete clarity, “Watch our backs. If you see us being killed, do not come to support us, and if you see us retrieving ghanimah, do not come to partake in doing so with us.” (Reported by Ahmad from Ibn ‘Abbas) But the archers did not heed the order of Allah’s Messenger, so the outcome was a retreat for the Muslims and a great massacre, all because of a segment of the army disobeyed the sincere order of their commander and his warning to them. This shows that military disobedience has a quick result, and any soldier’s lone ijtihad [personal judgment] that opposes the ijtihad of the emir – even if it apparently seems good and right – is a big mistake, opening a great door for evil. Instead, the soldier worships Allah by obeying his emir, as long as he does not order him with a shar’i disobedience. As for ijtihad regarding military action, then such is the sole right of the emir, and it is not appropriate for anyone to go against him except by way of giving advice. It is as the precept goes, “The leader’s opinion, that which concerns his responsibility as leader, is not negated by the opinion of individual Muslims” (Ibn Muflih: Kitab al-Furu’). Look, O slave of Allah, at the blessing found in listening and obeying in times of hardship and difficulty. An example of this is when Allah’s Messenger gave orders to the wounded Muslims at Uhud to fight, despite their pains and wounds, when he knew that Abu Sufyan sought to return to finish off those who remained of the Muslim army. The Muslims responded in obedience to Allah and His Messenger [and thus, Abu Sufyan’s plot failed]. Allah said, “Those who responded to Allah and the Messenger after injury had struck them, for those who did good among them and feared Allah is a great reward” (Al ‘Imran 172). Such was their exact condition when they came back from the Battle of al-Ahzab. Though they were looking forward to comfort after their worry was lifted and were enjoying the blessing of security and had not yet shook off the dust from the lengthy siege, the order came for another battle to be waged at once. “No one is to pray ‘Asr except after reaching Bani Quraydhah” (Reported by al-Bukhari and Muslim from Ibn ‘Umar). They responded to the command of Allah and His Messenger, being truthful to Allah and His Messenger, thus victory over their enemies came through truthfulness in listening and obeying and through seriousness when following Allah’s orders. The Prophet said, “Whoever obeys me has indeed obeyed Allah, and whoever disobeys me has indeed disobeyed Allah; and whoever obeys my emir has indeed obeyed me, and whoever disobeys my emir has indeed disobeyed me” (Reported by al-Bukhari and Muslim from Abu Hurayrah). Some matters that assist in listening and obeying the emir include: First, having good assumptions of the emir, as Allah said, “O you who believe! Avoid much assumption, for indeed some assumption is sinful” (Al-Hujurat 12). Thinking well of Muslims in general is an obligation, but doing so with the emir is even more obligatory. There is nothing more harmful to jihad than thinking bad of the emir. How could this not be the case, when such spawns the falsest of speech? Allah’s Messenger said, “Beware of [bad] assumptions, for indeed [bad] assumptions is the falsest of speech” (Reported by al-Bukhari and Muslim from Abu Hurayrah). The author of “Fayd al-Qadir” said, “A person’s bad assumption of someone for whom it is not due indicates an absence of uprightness in the person himself, as it is said, ‘When a person’s deeds are bad, so are his assumptions.’” Second, respecting the emir, as Imam Ahmad reported that Mu’adh said, “Allah’s Messenger told us of five things for which a person would have a guarantee from Allah if he were to do any thereof: Visiting a sick person, following a funeral procession, marching forth as a raider for Allah’s cause, entering upon a leader to honor and respect him, or staying home so that people are safe from him and he is safe from them.” Honoring and respecting the emir is by obeying him and supporting him, as well as mentioning his good traits, rushing to follow his orders, and advising him privately. Ibn Hajar said, “Being sincere to the leaders of the Muslims is by helping them with their responsibilities, by reminding them when they overlook [their duties], by mending their mistakes when they err, by calling others to unite with them, and by bringing fleeing hearts back to them” (Fath al-Bari). The fourth cause for victory is patience and steadfastness. Allah said, “O you who have believed, persevere, outlast [your enemy] in patience, perform ribat, and fear Allah that you may succeed” (Al ‘Imran 200). Since this road is long, one must take supplies; and since it is strenuous, burdensome, and full of obstacles, one must have patience and steadfastness. And since jihad is an act of worship, which Allah made a duty upon us, we must rise for it no matter how difficult the trials become and no matter how wearisome it may be. Even if falsehood is widespread and support is scarce, one must press on. Abu ‘Ubaydah Ibn al-Jarrah wrote to ‘Umar Ibn al-Khattab, mentioning to him the mobilization of the Romans and what was feared therefrom, so ‘Umar wrote back to him, saying, “As to what follows, indeed whatever befalls a believing slave of hardship, Allah brings relief for him thereafter. Indeed, a hardship will never overwhelm two eases.1 Furthermore, Allah says in His book, ‘O you who have believed, persevere, outlast [your enemy] in patience, perform ribat, and fear Allah that you may succeed’” (Reported by Malik from Zayd Ibn Aslam). Allah also said, “We will surely test you with something of fear, hunger, poverty, death, and lack of food – and give glad tidings to those who are patient” (Al-Baqarah 155). At-Tabari said, “Allah tells the followers of His Messenger that He will test them and try them with hardships in order to distinguish those who will continue to follow the Messenger from those who will turn back on their heels” (At-Tafsir). In any case, the outcome of patience is good. Allah said, “If you are patient, then it is better for the patient” (An-Nahl 126). So seek Allah’s aid and say as your predecessors from the mujahidin would say. “When they came upon Jalut and his troops, they said, ‘Our Lord! Pour patience upon us, steady our feet, and support us against the kafir people’” (Al-Baqarah 250). And say as the afflicted muwahhidin would say, “‘Our Lord! Pour patience upon us and let us die as Muslims’” (Al-A’raf 126).2 Thereby, they became pious shuhada after they had been sorcerous kuffar. Know that it is just as the truthful, trustworthy Prophet said, conveying the message of the Lord of creation, “that if the people all convened to benefit you with something, they would never benefit you except with what Allah has decreed for you, and if they all convened to harm you with something, they would not harm you except with what Allah decreed against you” (Reported by Ahmad and at-Tirmidhi from Ibn ‘Abbas). He also said, “Know that victory comes with patience, relief comes with suffering, and ease comes with hardship” (Reported by Ahmad from Ibn ‘Abbas). What I want to focus on is something that has been confirmed through experience and the athar. It is the great effect of the leadership’s steadfastness, especially in the battlefield and when encountering the enemy. A man asked al-Bara, “O Abu ‘Umarah! Did you retreat on the Day of Hunayn?” He answered, “As for Allah’s Messenger, he did not retreat. Abu Sufyan Ibn al-Harith held to the reins of his mule and when the mushrikin surrounded him, he dismounted and said, ‘I am the Prophet – no lie – I am Ibn ‘Abdil-Muttalib!’” (Reported by al-Bukhari and Muslim). In this hadith, there are great benefits that illuminate the path. Firstly, that the leadership was in the battlefield, at the location of the fight, not far from the area of conflict. It did not move from one country to another, claiming that it is “symbolic” and that with its end the da’wah would end. As such, the least we request of our brothers is that the emir of the wilayah remains inside his wilayah and that the emir of a region remains inside his region. Likewise, the emir of a katibah [battalion] or sariyyah [squad] stays with his troops. Anyone unable to do so, should not be a leader, even if he has all the qualifications, as lions do not hunt outside of their territory except by feeding on the prey of others. Secondly, his words “held to the reins of his mule” and their meaning, that steadfastness must be manifested by the emir and should appear in him through his deeds. The example found here is that despite this grave situation, Allah’s Messenger rode a mule, a sluggish animal. Ibn Kathir said, “This is the pinnacle of utter bravery, as on such a day, during the heat of battle, and after his army had left him exposed, he nevertheless rode a mule, which is slow and unsuitable for attacking, retreating, and fleeing, yet he charged it into them, announcing his name, as to let everyone know it was him. May Allah’s blessings and peace be upon him forever until the Day of Recompense” (At-Tafsir). Ibn Battal quoted al-Muhallab saying, “This hadith shows the imam mounting mules during war, which is a means of steadfastness for him and by which he is not be suspected of preparing to flee and turn back. This also influences the spirit of his soldiers, as if he is steadfast, his soldiers will be steadfast; and if he resolves to be steadfast and this is seen from him, they will resolve to be the same” (Sharh Sahih al-Bukhari). A benefit derived from these words is that it is not appropriate for the emir to mount something faster and stronger than what his troops mount. Rather, his mount should be like the average mount of his troops – if not less – as this will make the hearts of his troops more steadfast and keep him farther from suspicions, especially if his ride is paid for from the wealth of jihad. Thirdly, his introducing himself by saying, “I am the Prophet – no lie – I am Ibn ‘Abdil-Muttalib!” should be reflected upon. As the war intensified and shocked those therein until a person could not recognize his own brother, due to the severity of the situation and the speed of flight [from the battlefield], it was necessary for him to let his troops and those who loved him know that he was still there and that he had not fled. He announced this openly, discarding security measures and military precautions, as this was not the time and place for such measures, and the situation called for personal sacrifice and steadfastness during the dilemma. What is most amazing is that some emirs of jihad elsewhere, when the battle intensifies and the enemy overtakes his area and starts killing his troops, he hides away, does not contact any of his troops, and changes his name and maybe even his looks, claiming that the “good” leadership must be preserved, despite him having lost himself and his brothers. If he had remained steadfast with them, reorganized his soldiers, fought his enemy, and manifested steadfastness and patience, he would have achieved salvation for himself and his brothers, instead of losing himself and those over whom he was appointed. Fourthly, al-‘Abbas narrated that the Prophet said, “O ‘Abbas, call the People of the Samurah,”3 so al-‘Abbas, who had a strong voice, shouted loudly, “Where are the People of the Samurah!” Al-‘Abbas said, “By Allah, they came together when they heard my voice, just as cattle flock to their calves, and they said, ‘Here we are! At your service!’” (Reported by Muslim). Ibn Ishaq added that a man would try to return with his camel, but could not and thus would cast off his armor, take only his sword and leather shield, and move towards the voice of al-‘Abbas (Sirah Ibn Hisham). At-Tabari reported that the Prophet said to al-‘Abbas, “Call the Ansar and call the Muhajirin.” So he began to call the Ansar, clan by clan. He then told him, “Call the people who have Surat al-Baqarah memorized.” He then said, “O People of Surat al-Baqarah!” So they came altogether (At-Tafsir). In Sahih Muslim, it is mentioned that the last calls made were for Bani al-Harith Ibn al-Khazraj. Here there is an important point and a great, prophetic benefit. It is this action of Allah’s Messenger, when the people were fleeing and the rank was dispersed, until only twelve people remained at his side, or at most eighty – according to some narrations – and the unrivaled knights and heroes of the Muslims were routed, including the best warrior Salamah Ibn al-Akwa’ and the best of Allah’s slaves, the People of Bay’at ar-Ridwan and others. At that moment, the leadership did not despair. It did not lose hope. It did not throw down its sword and flee from the battlefield. Far be it from him to do so! Rather, he remained steadfast and began to call the people by that which they were known. He started with the people firmest in faith, the sincerest soldiers, and most pious slaves: the People of the Tree, of Bay’at ar-Ridwan. He then called the people of the Quran, those who bore the Book of Allah, and specifically those who memorized Surat al Baqarah. Thereafter, once they surrounded him, he began to incite the tribal spirit in the hearts of the believing party, calling the Ansar clan by clan, by their names. Thus, anyone who considered fleeing, feared infamy. The Prophet did this, knowing that the People of the Tree and those of Surat al-Baqarah had already been called. So he started first with the best of the best, and then moved on to those after them. An important point is that despite the sin of fleeing from battle and the crime of one who does so, committing that which could destroy the sinner and from which he might never repent, the Prophet did not harshly scold those who fled, nor did he take to belittling and cursing them. Rather, he did the opposite. He respected them by calling them by their tribes due to their precedence in jihad and tawhid. This shows that, in a time of hardship, the emir should resort – after Allah – to the forerunners of the mujahidin, then, after them, to the good sons of noble tribes. He should be very wary of humiliating any of them. Also, he should contact everyone who has abandoned jihad and remind him of his precedence in jihad for the cause of Allah, bringing him back to the ranks of his brothers, as by leaving the abandoner in his condition, the emir has left a breach for Shaytan and Shaytan’s party and forfeited a loss for jihad and its soldiers. And no intelligent person would allow this! Fifthly, there is a benefit in knowing who fled on Hunayn. Muslim reported [from Anas] that Umm Sulaym held a dagger on the Day of Hunayn and said, “O Messenger of Allah! Should I kill those tulaqa who came [to Islam] after us. They fled from you [on Hunayn]!” So Allah’s Messenger said, “O Umm Sulaym, indeed Allah was sufficient and good [for us].” Al-Bukhari reported [from Anas] that the Prophet had ten thousand fighters as well as the tulaqa and that they later fled. An-Nawawi said, “The tulaqa are those who accepted Islam from the people of Makkah on the day of its conquest. They were called so because the Prophet set them free. But their Islam was weak, so Umm Sulaym believed that they were hypocrites and that they deserved to be killed for their fleeing from the battlefield” (Sharh Sahih Muslim). With what preceded, it is very clear that those who were the first to flee on the Day of Hunayn were the tulaqa, thereby causing the Muslim rank to be distressed and putting panic in the hearts of the brave and sincere, who likewise fled thereafter. However, the question at hand is was Allah’s Messenger mistaken – far be it from him – for bringing the tulaqa with him to Hunayn while they were still new to Islam, their Islam was still weak as mentioned before, and he had yet to give them a “course” in tawhid? Their recent embrace of tawhid was emphasized when Allah’s Messenger went out towards Hunayn and passed by a tree of the mushrikin, which was called Dhat Anwat and upon which they would hang their weapons. The tulaqa said, “O Messenger of Allah! Make for us a Dhat Anwat just as they have a Dhat Anwat.” The Prophet then said, “Subhanallah! This is like when Musa’s people said, ‘Make a god for us just as they have gods’ (Al-A’raf 138)” (Reported by at-Timirdhi from Abu Waqid al-Laythi). I mention this since some of those with sick souls have found fault with us due to the many people who joined our army after the Islamic State was announced, and that some of them were a reason for brothers being defeated in certain places. But we did nothing more than follow the example of Allah’s Messenger. Rather, when Allah granted him victory, Allah’s Messenger rewarded the tulaqa and Muhajirin, gave them generously, and divided the ghanimah among them and did not give the Ansar anything, as al-Bukhari and others reported, and the Ansar made up the majority of the army. Ibnul-Qayyim said, “Part of the wisdom [in Allah decreeing the losses sustained in Hunayn] was to show that Allah supported His Messenger not through the multitude of those who entered into His religion from the different tribes nor by the refraining of his tribe from fighting him” (Ibn Hajar: Fath al-Bari). Aside from that, we give the Ummah the good news that no emir who joined us has ever cast aside his weapon after the Islamic State was announced, alhamdulillah. Rather, until this very day, they have remained heroes of combat and knights of battle, like those who preceded them to this great good, and all praise belongs to Allah, the Lord of creation.