During the Battle of Ahzab, the believers were afflicted by the sick-hearted and the scaremongers in Madinah, the people’s eyes shifted in fear and their hearts reached their throats, and various assumptions were made about Allah. He said, “And you assumed about Allah [various] assumptions” (Al-Ahzab 10). At-Tabari and Ibn Abi Hatim reported that al-Hasan al-Basri commented on this verse, saying, “The munafiqin thought that Muhammad and his companions would be eradicated, and the believers had conviction that what Allah had promised them was true – that He would make Islam overpower all religions even if the mushrikin despised such.” The munafiqin and the sick-hearted then said, “Allah and His Messenger did not promise us except delusion” (Al-Ahzab 12). At-Tabari and Ibn Abi Hatim reported that Qatadah commented on this verse, saying, “Some of the munafiqin said, ‘Muhammad used to promise us that we would conquer Persia and Rome, but we’ve been besieged here and now none of us is able to go out to relieve his bowels. Allah and His Messenger did not promise us except delusion.’” Then – in the midst of harsh war and severe affliction – the believers realized that Allah’s support was near. Allah said, “When the believers saw the [war] parties, they said, ‘This is what Allah and His Messenger had promised us, and Allah and His Messenger spoke the truth.’ And it increased them only in faith and submission” (Al-Ahzab 22). At-Tabari reported that Ibn ‘Abbas commented on this verse, saying, “Allah had said to them in Surat al-Baqarah, ‘Do you think that you will enter Jannah while such [trial] has not yet come to you as came to those who passed on before you? They were touched by poverty and hardship and were shaken, until [their] messenger and those who believed with him said, ‘When is the support of Allah?’ Indeed, the support of Allah is near’ (Al-Baqarah 214). So when calamity befell them as they were in the trench performing ribat against the war parties, the believers applied the verse to their situation, and it did not increase them except in faith and submission.” Thus, the believers, in their trenches, remember the ayat of Allah and the ahadith of the Messenger, interpret what they contain of news and signs, and apply them to their tribulations. Hardships and calamities do not distance them from contemplating the ayat of Allah and the wisdom of the Messenger. Rather, the hardships and calamities increase the believers – during their effort and battle – in patience against tribulation, contentment with Allah’s decree, and certainty of the actualization of what Allah and His Messenger have promised them, whereas the munafiqin and the sick-hearted have doubt and, therefore, mock and attack the promise of Allah and His Messenger, while the kuffar and tawaghit are deluded by their power and arrogance, “thinking of Allah other than the truth – the thought of Jahiliyyah” (Al ‘Imran 154) and the thought of evil, that the Almighty and Wise would abandon His religion and His allies, rather, that He would even make His enemies and their word triumph until all the religion is forever for other than Him – and Allah is exalted far above the thoughts of the ignorant. Rather, Allah is merely luring them forth from where they do not know, such that they work diligently to actualize Allah’s plot and their future punishment, thereby “ruining their houses by their [own] hands and the hands of the believers. So take warning, O people of vision” (Al-Hashr 2). In this regard, the cross-worshipers and their allies (the Turks and the Sahwat) mobilized in the northern countryside of Halab, declaring Dabiq their main goal and claiming that if they were to defile it with their filthy feet and banners, it would be a tremendous psychological victory over the Islamic State, thinking that the soldiers of the Islamic State couldn’t distinguish between the minor battle of Dabiq and the Major Malhamah of Dabiq, and accordingly, if the Islamic State were to withdraw from Dabiq, it would not be the bearer of the Prophet’s victorious banner in the major malahim before the Hour, and thus, after the withdrawal, the soldiers of the Khilafah would abandon it in multitudes. But the cross-worshipers and their murtadd allies did not know – and how could they possibly know – that the Major Malhamah of Dabiq will be preceded by great events from the minor signs of the Hour, events the believers performing ribat in their trenches know. They are events of which the truthful, trustworthy prophet informed in the ahadith of the tribulations, the malahim, and the signs of the Hour. The Prophet said, “The Hour will not be established until the Romans camp in A’maq or Dabiq. An army from the city [or ‘from Madinah’] – from among the best people of earth that day – will head out to them. When they form ranks, the Romans will say, ‘Leave us and those who were enslaved from amongst us [or ‘those who enslaved some of our people’] so we can fight them.’ The Muslims will say, ‘No, by Allah, we will not abandon our brothers to you.’ So they will fight them. Then one third of the army will flee; Allah will never forgive them. One third of them will be killed; they will be the best of the shuhada with Allah. And one third will conquer them; they will never be afflicted with fitnah. Then they will conquer Constantinople. While they are dividing the ghanimah, having hung their swords on olive trees, Shaytan will shout, ‘The Dajjal has gone after your families!’ So they will leave, but Shaytan’s claim will be false. When they arrive in Sham, the Dajjal will emerge. Then, as they are preparing for battle and forming their ranks, the prayer will be called. So ‘Isa Ibn Maryam will descend and lead them. When the enemy of Allah sees him, he will dissolve just as salt dissolves in water. If ‘Isa were to leave him, the Dajjal would continue to dissolve until perishing, but ‘Isa himself kills the Dajjal and then shows them his blood on his [‘Isa’s] spear” (Reported by Muslim from Abu Hurayrah). Yusayr Ibn Jabir reported that Ibn Mas’ud said, “Indeed, the Hour will not be established until the people stop dividing inheritance and rejoicing over ghanimah.” Then he said, while pointing towards Sham, “An enemy will muster strength against the Muslims and the Muslims will muster strength against them.” Yusayr Ibn Jabir asked him, “You mean the Romans?” He said, “Yes, and there will be a severe rout and the Muslims will prepare a detachment to fight to the death and to not return except victorious. They will fight until night intervenes between them; both sides will return without being victorious and the detachment will be wiped out. The Muslims will again prepare a detachment to fight to the death and to not return except victorious. They will fight until night comes upon them; both sides will return without being victorious and the detachment will be wiped out. The Muslims will again prepare a detachment to fight to the death and to not return except victorious. They will fight until night comes upon them; both sides will return without being victorious and the detachment will be wiped out. When it is the fourth day, the remaining Muslims will rise and advance towards them, and Allah will decree that the enemy be defeated. They will fight a battle the likes of which will never be seen [or ‘which has never been seen’], such that a bird would pass their flanks and fall down dead before reaching the end of them. [After the battle,] they would count those related to one another and find that after being one hundred relatives in number, only one man among them is left. So what joy would there be in any ghanimah, and what inheritance could be divided? While they are in that state, they will hear of a calamity worse than this, for a cry will reach them that the Dajjal has gone after their families, who were left behind. So they will throw aside what is in their hands and go forth, sending ten horsemen as a vanguard. Allah’s Messenger said, ‘I know their names and the names of their fathers and the colors of their horses. They will be the best [or ‘amongst the best’] horsemen on the face of the earth that day’” (Reported by Muslim). The Prophet said, “Count six things before the Hour: My death, then the conquest of Jerusalem, then a severe death that will afflict you like the disease that afflicts sheep [causing them to die suddenly after their noses run with something], then the spread of wealth to the extent that a man will be given one hundred dinars and will still be angry, then a fitnah which does not leave the home of any Arab except that it enters it, then a truce that will take place between you and the Romans, following which they will betray it and then come to you under eighty banners, with twelve thousand men under each banner” (Reported by al- Bukhari from ‘Awf Ibn Malik). The Prophet said, “You will have a treaty of security with the Romans and then you both will fight an enemy beyond [both of ] you. You will be victorious, acquire ghanimah, not suffer any losses, settle, and then depart. Thereafter ter, you will return and camp in a pastureland full of rocky mounds. A man from the Christian Romans will then raise the cross. He will say, ‘The cross has prevailed!’ A man from the Muslims will then say, ‘Rather Allah has prevailed,’ and will rush towards the cross – which will not be far from him – and smash it. Then the Romans will betray the treaty by rising against the breaker of the cross and striking his neck. The Muslims will then rush to their arms. They will then battle and the malahim will thus begin. Allah will bless this party of Muslims with shahadah. The Romans will say to the Roman leader, ‘We have subdued the Arabs [or ‘the Arabian Peninsula’] for you.’ They will then gather for the Malhamah. They will come for you under eighty banners, with each banner there will be twelve thousand people” [Reported by Ahmad, Ibn Majah, Abu Dawud, Ibn Hibban, and al-Hakim from Dhi Mikhbar; Adh-Dhahabi declared it sahih]. Thus, from among the events that will occur prior to the Major Malhamah of Dabiq is a treaty between the muwahhidin and the Romans, thereby each of the two nations will free itself up to fight a common enemy. Following the mujahidin’s victory over the enemy beyond them, the two armies of the treaty will camp in the pasturelands filled with rocky mounds, the pasturelands being in and around Dabiq and A’maq. A Christian Roman will then raise his cross and shout the slogan of Christianity. A muwahhid will then break the Christian’s cross, doing so out of jealousy for the sake of Allah, the One and Only. The Romans then betray the treaty and gather for the Malhamah, coming in the thousands. Furthermore, from among those events is that a group of mujahidin will enslave a group of Romans. The mujahidin will not abandon those of their brothers who enslaved the Romans or – as in another report – those enslaved Romans who enter into the religion of Islam. These are the events of the Major Malhamah of Dabiq: battle and struggle, killing and fighting, and pain and hope. The muwahhid mujahid merely needs to have patience and conviction during his ribat and battle until Allah divides the word of His enemies, scatters their hearts in disunity, ignites discord among them, and makes their hostility against each other. Thus, they will strike one another’s necks, and “perhaps it will be soon” (Al-Isra 51). The great events unfolding now in northern Sham – in Dabiq and its surroundings – are but signs of the coming malahim, inshaallah. These great events will force the Crusaders – sooner or later – to accept the terms of the Jama’ah of the Muslims, a truce that is precedent to the Major Malhamah of Dabiq. Today, the old discords are being renewed within the ranks of the enemies of Allah. The Crusaders of the West oppose the Crusaders of the East and their murtadd allies oppose one another. The Turks oppose the Kurds, the Sahwat of Turkey oppose the Sahwat of Jordan, the Rafidah oppose the Kurds of Iraq, the Kurds of the west oppose the Kurds of the east, and the Nusayriyyah oppose the Kurds of Sham. “You think they are together, but their hearts are in disagreement. That is because they are a people who do not reason” (Al-Hashr 14). This war of attack and withdrawal occurring in Dabiq and its surrounding areas – the minor battle of Dabiq – will inevitably lead to the Major Malhamah of Dabiq, even if a withdrawal were to precede it by Allah’s decree. Indeed, the Malhamah will come about after that which Allah and His Messenger have promised is materialized, including the treaty between the Muslims and the Romans followed by the Romans’ betrayal that leads to the Major Malhamah of Dabiq. Thereafter, will come the certain conquest of Constantinople (and then the city of Rome). Abu Hurayrah narrated that the Prophet said, “Have you heard of a city with one side on land and another side on the sea?” They said, “Yes, O Messenger of Allah.” He said, “The Hour will not be established until seventy thousand from Bani Ishaq [or ‘from Bani Isma’il’] attack it. When they reach it, they will camp, and they will not fight with any weapons or shoot any arrows. They will say, ‘La ilaha illallah, wallahu akbar,’ and one of its two sides [or ‘the side that’s on the sea’] will collapse. Then they will say a second time, ‘La ilaha illallah, wallahu akbar,’ and its other side will collapse. Then they will say a third time, ‘La ilaha illallah, wallahu akbar,’ and a breach will be made for them. They will thus enter it and collect ghanimah. As they are dividing the ghanimah, a shout reaches them, saying, ‘The Dajjal has emerged!’ So they will leave everything and return” (Reported by Muslim). May Allah make this occur at the hands of the mujahidin of the Khilafah. And as Shaykh Abu Mus’ab az-Zarqawi said, “We wage jihad here while our eyes are on Jerusalem, and we fight here while our goal is Rome, thinking good of Allah, that He may make us the keys of the prophetic, good news and the divine decrees” (Riyah an-Nasr). And Allah is predominant over His affair, but most people do not know.