There is no doubt that protecting the religion is the greatest of priorities. As such, Allah forbade shirk and whatever leads to it. He forbade speaking about Him without knowledge. He forbade religious innovations and their causes. Accordingly, it is a duty to warn the Ummah of shirk and bid’ah, proclaim the condition of those who practice and propagate such, and expose their evil and falsehood. This is part of the obligatory nasihah1, to safeguard the religion of Muslims, just as the Prophet  said, “Religion is nasihah.” He was asked, “To whom?” He said, “To Allah, to His Book, to His Messenger, and to the leaders of the Muslims and their public” (Reported by Muslim from Tamim ad-Darri). Likewise, refuting the people of bida’ and warning against them is a part of commanding virtue and forbidding vice. Allah  said, “Let there be a group of you who call to good, command virtue, and forbid vice; and those [who do so] are the successful” (Al ‘Imran 104). Ibn Taymiyyah  said, “Regarding the imams of bida’, those who make statements or promote acts of worship at odds with the Quran and the Sunnah, then exposing them and warning the Ummah against them is obligatory according to all Muslims… Because purifying Allah’s path, His religion, His methodology, and His Shari’ah, as well as repelling the deviance and transgression of such people is fard kifayah2 according to all Muslims. If it were not for Allah raising individuals to repel the harm caused by such people, the religion would have become corrupted. Its corruption thereby is far worse than the corruption caused by a war-waging enemy seizing the land. This is because when the enemy seizes the land, they do not corrupt the Muslims’ hearts or the religion contained therein, except as an eventual consequence. As for the people of bida’, then they corrupt the hearts initially” (Majmu’ al-Fatawa). It was established in the Sunnah that it is permissible to speak about a wicked man and to fault him, referring to him by his name. The person of bid’ah is the same, and speaking ill of him in order to warn others against him is likewise permissible. ‘Aishah  said, “A man sought permission to enter upon Allah’s Messenger , so he said, ‘Allow him to enter, how wicked a member of his tribe he is.’ When he entered, the Prophet  spoke kindly to him. After the man left, I said, ‘O Messenger of Allah, you said what you said about him and then you spoke kindly to him?’ He said, ‘O ‘Aishah, indeed the worst person on Resurrection Day is he whom others abandon to avoid his wickedness” (Reported by al-Bukhari and Muslim).3 The Salaf would warn others of taking knowledge from the people of bid’ah, just as Muslim reported in his sahih from Imam Muhammad Ibn Sirin , who said, “Indeed, this knowledge is religion, so be observant of those from whom you take your religion.” He also said, “They used to not ask about the isnad, but when the fitnah arose, they would say, ‘Name your men for us!’ So they would take hadith from people of Sunnah and would not take hadith from people of bid’ah.” An example of this is Shababah Ibn Sawwar al-Fazari (d. 206AH). When he adopted some of the bid’ah of irja, Imam Ahmad Ibn Hanbal  abandoned taking knowledge from him and said, “I did not write from him due to his irja” (Al-Mizzi: Tahdhib al-Kamal).4 This indicates that there were those amongst the people of bid’ah who bore knowledge, preserved it, and excelled in many fields thereof, yet despite so, the imams of the Sunnah were not deceived by them. Rather, the imams avoided the mubtadi’ah, as such knowledge was not a commendation for them, but a proof against them. Knowledge necessitates fear of Allah and good deeds, as Ibrahim an-Nakha’i said, “Whenever we wanted to take knowledge from a shaykh, we would ask him about his food, drink, and where he would spend his time. If he was upright, we would take from him. Otherwise, we would not go to him” (Ibn ‘Adiyy: Al-Kamil fi Du’afa ar-Rijal). Rather, the Salaf would not shy away from mentioning, by name, those who made mistakes when narrating, whether er due to poor memory or imprecision, even if they were people of virtue and uprightness, and this was in order to warn people of their mistakes. This is not prohibited ghibah (backbiting); it is obligatory, sincere advice. This is so that these mistakes are not wrongly attributed to the Shari’ah. Otherwise, people might assume the mistakes are from the religion and thus follow them. As a result, Islamic history bore witness to the emergence of a magnificent science called “al-Jarh wat-Ta’dil,”5 which was one of the greatest sources of pride for the Ummah, and through it, the Sunnah was preserved by distinguishing the authentic reports from the weak ones. Al-Jarh wat-Ta’dil is one of the sciences of hadith. In it, the conditions of narrators – those who transmit knowledge – are researched in regards to their uprightness, precision, truthfulness, and trustworthiness. Thus, the scholars of this field would mention the narrator based on what was known of him being weak, being deceptive, making mistakes, or telling lies. These scholars even dedicated compilations to such “majruhin” (those with whom faults were found). Al-Bukhari and Abu Ja’far al-‘Uqayli (d. 322AH) compiled books they entitled “Ad Du’afa,” meaning “the weak ones.” An-Nasai (d. 303AH), ad-Daraqutni (d. 385AH), and Ibnul-Jawzi (d. 597AH) compiled books they entitled “Ad-Du’afa wal-Matrukun,” meaning “the weak and the abandoned.” Ibn ‘Adiyy al-Jurjani (d. 365AH) compiled his book “Al-Kamil fi Du’afa ar-Rijal,” meaning “the complete collection of weak men.” Other scholars likewise wrote many famous and important compilations in this field. In this regards, ‘Abdullah Ibn ‘Ahmad Ibn Hanbal said, “Abu Turab an-Nakhshabi came to my father as my father was saying, ‘So-and-so is weak. So-and-so is trustworthy.’ So Abu Turab said, ‘O shaykh, do not backbite the scholars!’ My father then turned to him and said, ‘Woe to you, this is nasihah, not backbiting’” (Al-Khatib: Tarikh Baghdad). Ibnul-Jawzi quoted Muhammad Ibn Bandar al-Jurjani as saying, “I said to Ahmad Ibn Hanbal that it is hard for me to say that someone is weak or a liar. So he replied, ‘If you and I stay quiet, then how will an ignorant person know what is authentic and what is not?’” (Ad-Du’afa wal-Matrukun). Just as this was the methodology of the imams regarding those who erred or made mistakes when narrating, even if the narrators were people of virtue and uprightness – in that the imams would mention the narrators’ faults in order to warn people – it was likewise their way with the people of bida’ and followers of desires, but even harsher and greater, as was touched upon before. As for those who commit bida’ mukaffirah (bida’ that amount to major kufr), the imams confronted them with refutation, reprimand, warnings, abandonment, defamation, and takfir. The deviant Bishr al-Marisi, after saying that the Quran was created, speaking heretically about the names of Allah, and denying well-established beliefs, was repudiated and warned against by the imams of the Sunnah. They composed refutations against him while mentioning him by name. Imam Abu Sa’id ad-Darimi wrote “The Criticism of ‘Uthman Ibn Sa’id on the Stubborn Jahmi Bishr al-Marisi Regarding His Lies against Allah Concerning Tawhid.” Indeed, the imams of the Sunnah declared him a kafir like his forerunner Jahm Ibn Safwan. When Hammad Ibn Zayd was asked about Bishr al-Marisi, he said, “He is a kafir” (Ad-Darimi: An-Naqd ‘alal-Marisi). ‘Abdul-Latif Al ash-Shaykh reported this consensus of the scholars, saying, “The people of knowledge are agreed upon making takfir of him” (Majmu’at ar-Rasail). This Bishr al-Marisi was one of those who sought knowledge from a group of the scholars and fuqaha of his era. He was privileged to hear from and speak to them directly. He was not from the mere laymen, but he was supposedly, as adh-Dhahabi said of him, “The mutakallim,6 the debater, the expert… Bishr was one of the major fuqaha. He took from al-Qadi Abu Yusuf, narrated from Hammad Ibn Salamah and Sufyan Ibn ‘Uyaynah, and looked into kalam until he was consumed by it and lost all piety and taqwa. He infamously adopted and called to the belief that the Quran was created, until he became the leader and scholar of the Jahmiyyah in his era” (As-Siyar). Indeed, we find that the imams of the Sunnah did not stop at merely making takfir of the Jahmiyyah and their head, al-Marisi, nor did they stop at warning against them, but rather they even incited people to kill the heads of the Jahmiyyah. Imam Yazid Ibn Harun  said, “The Jahmiyyah are kuffar. On more than one occasion, I incited the people of Baghdad to kill al-Marisi” (Ad-Darimi: Ar-Radd ‘alal-Jahmiyyah). Likewise, Amirul-Muminin Harun ar-Rashid said, “It has reached me that Bishr al-Marisi claims the Quran to be created. I swear to Allah that if He puts him within my reach, I will kill him in a manner by which I have never killed anyone before” (‘Abdullah Ibn Ahmad: As-Sunnah). And throughout history, there are many cases of takfir being pronounced on deviant zanadiqah7 and heads of extreme bid’ah as well as killing and crucifying them, like the executions of al-Ja’d Ibn Dirham,8 al-Jahm Ibn Safwan,9 and al-Husayn Ibn Mansur al-Hallaj.10 The methodology of later, great imams in their dealings with the heads of deviation and extreme heresy was like that of their predecessors. You find, for example, Ibn Taymiyyah spoke out against the panentheistic zindiq Ibn ‘Arabi by name. He also wrote his book “Minhaj as-Sunnah” as a refutation of the head of the Rafidah, Abu Mansur al-Hilli, and authored treatises against the grave worshiping al-Bakri al-Misri and other deviant callers. Likewise, we find this methodology followed by Muhammad Ibn ‘Abdil-Wahhab and his truthful students, as they did not leave any opportunity to expose the many deviants who called to shirk, argued in defense of the mushrikin, and lied against the people of tawhid. Indeed, whole works were composed against these deviants as well as exclusive treatises and numerous fatawa. Therefore, speaking against the mubtadi’ah and zanadiqah, exposing them by name, and appropriately passing judgment on them is a deep-rooted method of Ahlus-Sunnah wal-Jama’ah. As such, it is even of greater importance to follow their method when speaking about the scholars of the tawaghit and the Jahmiyyah of our time, those who lead people to shirk and kufr – and thus to the fire of Jahannam – by propagating deviance, concealing the truth, and misguiding the people. We ask Allah to help us in exposing them and clarifying their condition to the people.