Du’a is a strong, lasting, and lethal weapon. Through it, afflictions are relieved and destruction is prevented, through it the believer defends against tribulations and the plots of the enemy, through it blessings are obtained and Allah’s wrath is avoided, and through it anxieties are relieved and sadness is dispelled. Du’a is one of the unique aspects of worship. Rather, du’a is the essence of worship, for it entails complete love and complete humility towards Allah, the One, the Judge, the Just. In it, the slave confides with his Lord, acknowledging his inability and weakness. It is a consolation for the hearts, a healing for the chests, an ointment for the wounds, and a means of facilitating matters. Du’a is a strong refuge and an impenetrable fortress. Nothing is more honored by Allah than du’a. And the most incompetent of people is he who is incapable of du’a, for it is an easy form of worship, which can be performed day and night, is practiced both on land and at sea, and is legislated both for when settled or traveling. Those who make du’a flee unto the Most Gracious, the Most Merciful, the All-Knowing, and cling to their Lord, the King, the Pure, the Perfect. You see them, when making du’a, casting themselves before the Most Generous, their prayer cutting them off from the world as they turn towards the Lord of all creation, liberating themselves from the bondage of having need of the people and their favors, being sincere towards their Lord in their appeal, and eagerly seeking that He bestow His bounties upon them. This is du’a. What is more greatly needed by the Muslim these days when the nations of kufr and its sects and religions have summoned one another against the Jama’ah of the Muslims? Thus, let the mujahid pay attention to the importance of this weapon and the obligation of mastering it and leaving off clinging to anyone other than the All-Hearing, the Responding. Likewise, let every Muslim – male and female – take part in striving against the enemies of Allah with this divine and efficient weapon. The Prophet  said, “Wage jihad against the mushrikin with your wealth, your lives, and your tongues” (Reported by Abu Dawud and an-Nasai). The jihad of the tongue is not limited to incitement to jihad, praising the mujahidin, vilifying the act of neglecting jihad, and ridiculing the disbelievers. Rather, from the most important forms of jihad by the tongue is du’a, by the Muslim making du’a for the defeat of the mushrikin and the victory of the believers. This form of jihad (the jihad through du’a) is more emphasized in the case of those for whom Allah exempted from fighting for His cause, such as women, the ill, the disabled, and the imprisoned. They should all make du’a for the mujahidin, for indeed, when Allah excused the exempted, He did so on condition that they are sincere towards Allah and His Messenger, and this includes making du’a for the allies of Allah, the followers of His Messenger . Allah  said, “There is not upon the weak or upon the ill or upon those who do not find anything to spend any blame if they are sincere to Allah and His Messenger. There is not upon the doers of good any cause [for blame]. And Allah is Forgiving and Merciful” (At-Tawbah 91). Rather, the du’a of the weak is from the most important means of victory for the Muslims and defeating the kuffar, as the Prophet  said to Sa’d Ibn Abi Waqqas , “Are you granted victory or given provision except by means of the weak among you” (Reported by al-Bukhari). In the narration of an-Nasai, he  said, “Indeed, Allah gives victory to this Ummah by means of its weak, through their du’a, their prayers, and their sincerity.” Ibn Hajar said, “As-Suhayli said, ‘Jihad at times is done with weapons and at times is done through du’a’” (Fath al-Bari). This is from the apparent and established matters, except that in these days some traumatized defeatists who submitted to the idol of military technology and conceded in advance to the victory of the Crusaders over the Islamic State abandoned du’a, as if it brings no benefit, and Allah’s refuge is sought! This misguided conduct of some people is only due to their ignorance of this weapon, for verily if they knew the importance of du’a, its magnificent effects, its form and etiquettes, and heard stories of Allah answering the du’a of His slaves, they would not have abstained from it nor clung to a means besides it. It is upon the slave to know that du’a contains abundant fruits and numerous virtues that cannot be counted. From among them is that du’a is done in obedience to the order of Allah , who said, “Supplicate Him, being sincere to Him in religion” (Al-A’raf 29), “Supplicate Him in fear and hope” (Al-A’raf 56), and “Supplicate your Lord in humility and privately” (Al-A’raf 55). Also, it entails the best reliance, humility, and modesty towards Allah , who said, “Your Lord said, ‘Supplicate Me; I will respond to you. Indeed, those who disdain My worship will enter Hell [rendered] contemptible” (Ghafir 60). Likewise, it is a means of defending against calamities before they transpire, as the Prophet  said, “Nothing averts qadar except du’a” (Reported by Ibn Majah, al-Hakim, and Ibn Hibban). Similarly, it is a means of removing calamities after they have transpired, as he  said, “Caution will not prevent qadar, and du’a benefits for that which has transpired and for that which has not transpired, and indeed calamity descends and du’a meets it, so they both engage each other until Resurrection Day” (Reported by al-Hakim). It is also a means of attaining what is sought by the du’a. Allah’s Messenger  said, “There is no Muslim who makes a du’a, consisting not of wrongdoing or the breaking of ties, except that Allah with give him one of three things; either He will cause to transpire that for which he was making du’a, or He will save it for him for the Hereafter, or He will avert for him some evil equivalent to it” (Reported by Ahmad and al-Hakim). Therefore, du’a is an enormous matter! Perhaps one of the most important fruits of du’a is that it is a means of steadfastness, victory, and triumph over the enemy, and this is established in the Book and the Sunnah, in mutawatir form from the life of the Prophet , the lives of his Sahabah , and the narrations of the Salaf . In the story of the battle between Talut and his believing soldiers, and Jalut and his disbelieving soldiers, what did the believers do then and what was the conclusion? Allah  said, “When they went forth to [face] Jalut and his soldiers, they said, ‘Our Lord, pour upon us patience and plant firmly our feet and give us victory over the disbelieving people’” (Al-Baqarah 250). This was a du’a that the muwahhidin made shortly before and during the course of their battle with the mushrikin, and Allah responded to them immediately. He  said, “So they defeated them by the permission of Allah” (Al-Baqarah 251). In the Major Battle of Badr, the night before the battle, Allah’s Messenger  spent the night praying and making much du’a while in prostration and asking Allah for victory (al-Bidayah wan-Nihayah). On the day of Badr, the Prophet  looked towards his companions, who numbered a little more than three hundred, and then looked towards the mushrikin and saw that they numbered more than one thousand. Then he faced the qiblah and said, “O Allah, fulfill for me what you promised me. O Allah, bring about what you promised me. O Allah, if you destroy this group from the people of Islam you will not be worshiped on the earth.” Thereupon, he did not cease appealing to his Lord for aid and making du’a to Him until his cloak fell from his shoulders (Reported by Muslim). As for the situation of the Companions on the day of Badr, Allah depicted that they were beseeching Him for aid and making du’a to Him. He said, “[Remember] when you asked help of your Lord, and He answered you” (Al-Anfal 9). After this du’a of the Prophet  and the Companions  what was the outcome? Allah reinforced them with one thousand angels following one another, sent down upon them tranquility, planted firm their feet, overwhelmed them with sleepiness, sent down upon them rain by which He cleansed them and removed from them the evil whispers of Shaytan, strengthened their hearts, and cast terror into the hearts of the mushrikin, thereupon the Muslims defeated the mushrikin by Allah’s permission. In the Battle of Ahzab, when the mushrikin surrounded Madinah in a severe siege, and hunger, thirst, and fear intensified for the Muslims, and their enemy came at them from above them and from beneath them and the people’s hearts reached their throats, the Prophet humbly beseeched his Lord and persisted in his du’a. From the du’a he  made during the digging of the trench was, “O Allah, if it were not for You we would not have been guided, and we would not have given charity or have prayed, so send down upon us tranquility, and make our feet firm if we encounter [the enemy]. Indeed, the enemy has transgressed against us. If they want to battle, we will refuse to flee” (Reported by al-Bukhari). And from his du’a during the ordeal of the siege was, “O Allah, revealer of the Book, mover of the clouds, defeater of the [war] parties, defeat them and grant us victory over them” (Reported by al-Bukhari and Muslim). As for the Muslims, they would ask the Prophet  what du’a they should make to their Lord. It was reported that Abu Sa’id al-Khudri (RAD) said, “We said on the day of the trench, ‘O Messenger of Allah, is there anything we should say? For the people’s hearts have reached their throats.’ He replied, ‘Yes. [Say] ‘O Allah, conceal our weaknesses and replace our fear with security’” (Reported by Ahmad). So what occurred after these blessed supplications? A tornado’s wind blew during a dark night and overturned the mushrikin’s cooking pots, uprooted their tents, put out their fires, and buried their riding equipment. So they simply called for a withdrawal, and regarding that, Allah  said, “O you who have believed, remember the favor of Allah upon you when armies came to [attack] you and We sent upon them a wind and armies [of angels] you did not see. And Allah is ever seeing of what you do” (Al-Ahzab 9). Thus, to the subjugated Muslims everywhere, upon you is to make du’a, upon you is to make du’a, upon you is to make du’a. Supplicate Allah while being certain He will respond. He will fulfill His promise and defeat the parties alone, by His Ability and Power. This is undoubtedly certain. Part 2 Du’a is the weapon of the believer. It is more emphasized in the case of subjugated Muslims and those for whom Allah has not facilitated fighting with their wealth and person. Du’a was the reason for the victory of Talut and his muwahhid soldiers over Jalut and his mushrik soldiers, as mentioned in Surat al-Baqarah. And it was the first thing that Allah’s Messenger  would resort to if the enemy assaulted the Muslims or if the ranks of the Muslims clashed with the ranks of the mushrikin. Likewise were the Sahabah  and the generation that succeeded them – not resorting in their battles to anyone other than their Lord, relying upon Him, coming before Him in a broken state, appealing to Him, and disavowing themselves of their ability and strength and depending solely upon His ability and strength. Then, it would not be long before Allah would make them steadfast, send tranquility down upon them, and make their enemy despair, casting fear into their hearts and driving them away defeated. The noble companion, Nu’man Ibn Muqrin, was sent by ‘Umar Ibn al-Khattab  at the head of an army to fight the Persians, who had marched out with 150,000 fighters to raid the lands of the Muslims in the year 21AH. The two parties met in the region of Nahawand in the lands of Persia, and Nu’man waited to initiate the fighting right after noon, the most beloved of hours to Allah’s Messenger  for encountering the enemy. When the time approached, he mounted his horse and rode among the people, stopping at every banner to remind the soldiers, incite them, and promise them victory. He said to them, “I will make takbir three times. When I make the third takbir I will charge, so charge [with me].” He then made du’a, saying, “O Allah, strengthen your religion, bring victory to your slaves, and make Nu’man the first shahid today. O Allah, I ask you to grant me intense joy with a conquest in which there is honor for Islam and to take me as a shahid.” So the people wept and said “amin” to his du’a. What was the outcome? Following a fierce battle, the Persians were defeated, and from the time of noon up until the day became night, so many Persians were killed that the battlefield was filled with blood and the people and their riding animals would slip in the blood. Then, once Allah had given Nu’man intense joy with the conquest and he saw the mushrikin’s defeat, Allah took him as a shahid at the end of the battle in response to his du’a (Ibn al-Athir: Al-Kamil). If we were to examine the narrations of the Salaf concerning their use of the weapon of du’a in their battles, and how du’a had a major effect in their victories, it would be a very lengthy discussion. An example of this is that the conqueror Qutaybah Ibn Muslim al-Bahili would have the scholars, the fuqaha, and the devout worshipers accompany him during his conquests and would seek victory through their du’a. In one of his battles at the end of the first Hijri century, Qutaybah formed his ranks to battle the Turks and was alarmed by their condition, their multitudes, and their equipment. He sent someone to find the Tabi’i, Imam Muhammad Ibn Wasi’  and was told, “That’s him at the right wing of the army leaning on his bow, raising his finger, and asking Allah for victory over the enemy.” Qutaybah then made his famous statement, “That finger is more beloved to me than 100,000 unsheathed swords and strong young men” (Siyar A’lam an-Nubala). He did not say this and rejoice in anticipation of victory except due to his knowledge of the important virtue of du’a as a weapon. When he met the army of the pagan Turks and fought them, Allah granted him conquest and he broke their ranks, took their land, killed multitudes of them, captured many others, and took much of their wealth as ghanimah (Al-Bidayah wan-Nihayah). Let’s look at another conqueror, the heroic commander and wali of Khurasan, Asad Ibn ‘Abdillah al-Qasri . In one of his ferocious battles with the Turks in 119 AH, he led the Fajr prayer in the Muslim encampment and then addressed them, saying, “Indeed, the enemy of Allah, Harith Ibn Surayj [one of those who rebelled against Bani Umayyah during the rule of Hisham Ibn ‘Abdil-Malik] has called forth his tyrant – referring to Khaqan the Turk – in order to extinguish the light of Allah and change His religion, but Allah will humiliate him, inshaallah. Indeed your enemy, the dog, has afflicted some of your brothers [with death, injury, or captivity], but if Allah wishes to support you, neither your small numbers nor their large numbers will harm you, so seek Allah’s support.” He then said, “It has reached me that the closest the slave comes to Allah is when he rests his forehead down [on the ground] for Allah, and I will come down and rest my forehead down [on the ground], so make du’a to Allah, prostate before your Lord, and make your du’a solely to Him.” They did so, and then raised their heads having no doubt that they would triumph, and marched forth to fight the pagan Turks. When they reached Balkh – one of the cities of Khurasan – he led the people in praying a lengthy two-raka’ah prayer, and then told the people to make du’a to Allah. He made a lengthy du’a, asking for victory, and the people said “amin” to his du’a. Then he said three times, “You will be victorious, by the Lord of the Ka’bah, inshaallah.” When they reached the mushrikin and murtaddin, Harith was defeated, Khaqan turned back in retreat, and the Turks fled, showing no concern for each other. The Muslims pursued them, killing those they were able to overcome, until they reached their sheep. They then herded away more than 155,000 sheep (Tarikh at- Tabari). This was just a glimpse at the feats of our predecessors, from which we can take that du’a is one of the most important means of victory over the enemy, as long as it fulfills the conditions for being responded to and is free of any factors that would prevent it from being answered. Among the most important conditions for du’a to be answered is that the du’a be made solely to Allah, the One. Another important condition is for one to follow Allah’s Messenger  in his manner of making du’a and avoid innovations concerning du’a. Another important condition is to be determined and certain. The Prophet said, “When one of you makes du’a, let him be certain and let him not say, ‘O Allah, if You so wish then grant me’” (Reported by al-Bukhari and Muslim). Another important condition is to be confident that Allah will respond to the du’a. The Prophet  said, “If you ask Allah, ask while having conviction that He will respond, for Allah does not answer a du’a from the inattentive heart of His slave” (Reported by Ahmad). Another important condition is to desire that which is with Allah of reward, to fear that which is with Him of punishment, and to make one’s heart attentive and be in a state of kushu’ (humble submissiveness). Allah  said, “Indeed, they used to hasten to good deeds and make du’a to Us in hope and fear, and they were to Us humbly submissive” (Al-Anbiya 90). Likewise, du’a has certain etiquettes, as well as some recommended aspects, both of which make it more likely to be answered. Among them is that the one making du’a should be in a state of wudu, face the qiblah, raise his hands, praise Allah  with that which He deserves of praise, and ask Him to send blessings upon the Prophet prior to and after making du’a. Also, he should perform a good deed before making du’a, should beg Allah to grant his request, should repeat the du’a three or more times, and should weep when making du’a. He should also seek out times in which du’a is answered, such as during the last third of the night, just before the end of the obligatory prayers, between the adhan and the iqamah, when it’s raining, when the army marches for the cause of Allah, when the two armies meet for battle, during the last hour on Friday, during sujud, when one hears a rooster crowing, when breaking one’s fast, and during travel. Furthermore, the one making du’a should beware of those factors that prevent a du’a from being answered, including making du’a to other than Allah and seeking the intercession of the dead and those who are absent, for this is major shirk and expels one from the religion. Also among these factors is making tawassul through innovated du’a, such as making du’a to Allah alone but while swearing by the honor of the Prophet , saying, “O Allah, I ask You alone by the honor of Your Prophet.” Also among them is to restrict the vast mercy of Allah in ones requests. Also among them is to make du’a for something sinful and for the cutting of kinship ties. Also among them is to commit sins, particularly the consumption of haram, as with the sins of stealing, dealing in riba, drinking alcohol, and smoking. Allah’s Messenger  said, “A man on a long journey, disheveled and covered in dust, raises his hands to the sky, saying, ‘My Lord, my Lord,’ but his food is haram, his drink is haram, his clothing is haram, and he has been nourished with haram, so how can his du’a be answered?” (Reported by Muslim). Also, among them is to leave off commanding good and prohibiting evil. The Prophet  said, “By He in whose hand is my soul, you will command good and prohibit evil or else Allah will soon send a punishment from Him. Then, you will make du’a to Him and you will not be answered” (Reported by at-Tirmidhi, who declared it Hasan). Likewise, it is upon the one making du’a to avoid those matters that are disliked when making du’a, such as raising one’s voice extremely high. ‘Aishah  said, “This verse – ‘And do not recite [too] loudly in your prayer or [too] quietly’ – was revealed concerning du’a” (Reported by al-Bukhari and Muslim). Also among the disliked matters is to exaggerate and overdo things by rhyming one’s words or using words that are not typically known to the commoners, and although it is praiseworthy to be grammatical when making du’a so that the meaning of the du’a isn’t affected, being unnatural in that regard is something blameworthy because it takes away from one’s khushu’ and distracts one’s heart. Also among them is to seek with one’s du’a something that is not appropriate to be sought, such as one asking Allah to let him live in the Dunya forever or asking for his status to be equal to the status of the Prophets. Finally, O soldiers, leaders, subjects, and supporters of the Islamic State, make du’a to Allah that He grants victory to your Khilafah and defeats the Jalut of the era, America and its soldiers, for Allah will respond to your du’a, even if after some time.