As the soldiers of the Khilafah continue waging war on the forces of kufr, we take a glimpse at a number of recent operations conducted by the mujahidin of the Islamic State that have succeeded in expanding the territory of the Khilafah, or terrorizing, massacring, and humiliating the enemies of Allah. These operations are merely a selection of the numerous operations that the Islamic State has conducted on various fronts across many regions over the course of the last few weeks. The War on Apostate Turkey On the 30th of Muharram, Sahwah fighters attempted to attack the village of Sanday Saghir following heavy Turkish artillery bombardment. The soldiers of the Khilafah lured them into the village and into a field of landmines where 5 explosive devices blew up on them, and fierce clashes broke out inside the village in which several murtaddin were killed. On the 4th of Safar, the soldiers of the Khilafah disabled two Turkish tanks using two guided missiles near the village of ‘Ablah. On the 5th of Safar, the soldiers of the Khilafah detonated a car bomb on a Turkish police station in the city of Diyarbakir in the southeastern part of Turkey. The mujahidin also disabled two Turkish tanks using two guided missiles near the village of ‘Ablah in the northern countryside of Halab. On the 13th of Safar, dozens of Sahwah fighters and Turkish soldiers were killed and wounded and several of their military vehicles were destroyed in confrontations with the soldiers of the Khilafah in the countryside of Bab. Our brother Abu Salih al-Harbi  set out with his explosive vehicle and detonated it in the midst of a group of Turkish tanks near the village of Hazwan. The mujahidin likewise detonated a car bomb on a convoy of Sahwah fighters near the village of Nu’man, and also destroyed two Turkish tanks and a Sahwah BMP using guided missiles, in addition to destroying two 4-wheel drive vehicles mounted with heavy machine guns. Another two 4-wheel drive vehicles were taken as ghanimah, in addition to a variety of weapons and ammo. On the 15th of Safar, Islamic State tank hunters destroyed a tank and an armored vehicle belonging to the murtadd Turkish army using two guided missiles near the village of Hazwan, and also disabled another tank using a guided missile near the village of Qudayran in the city of Bab’s countryside. On the 18th of Safar, Islamic State tank hunters succeeded in destroying two tanks belonging to the murtadd Turkish army and in killing their crews after targeting them with two guided missiles in the vicinity of the village of Hazwan west of the city of Bab. On the 19th of Safar, Islamic State tank hunters destroyed a bulldozer and two armored vehicles belonging to the murtadd Turkish army, and also disabled one of their tanks with a guided missile in the vicinity of the village of Hazwan west of the city of Bab. On the 20th of Safar, our istishhadi brother Abu Hammam ash-Shami  set out with an explosive vehicle and detonated it on a group of Turkish soldiers and Sahwah fighters in the village of Kufayr northwest of the city of Bab. He succeeded in killing more than 15 murtaddin and injuring a number of others, in addition to disabling several of their vehicles. On the 21st of Safar, two istishhadi operations struck a group of Sahwah fighters and Turkish soldiers in the village of ‘Awlan north of the city of Bab. On the 23rd of Safar, our istishhadi brother Abul-Bara al-Manbiji  succeeded in reaching the operations command base for the murtadd Turkish army and the murtadd Sahwah near the village of Waqah northwest of the city of Bab. He broke into their midst and detonated his explosive vehicle, killing and injuring several of them. On the 24th of Safar, the mujahidin destroyed a Turkish tank in village of Barazi north of the city of Bab after targeting it with a guided missile. On the 26th of Safar, a Turkish tank was destroyed in vicinity of the village of Kufayr west of the city of Bab using a guided missile. On the 28th of Safar, an armored vehicle belonging to the murtadd Turkish army was destroyed using a guided missile south of the village of Kufayr located west of the city of Bab. On the 29th of Safar, the soldiers of the Khilafah succeeded in capturing two apostate Turkish soldiers near the village of Dana west of the city of Bab. Meanwhile, Islamic State tank hunters destroyed an armored vehicle and a bulldozer belonging to the murtadd Turkish army south of the village of Azraq located west of Bab using two guided missiles. Salahuddin Wilayah On the 6th of Safar, three istishhadi operations were carried out targeting the Rafidi apostates in the cities of Samarra and Takrit. Our brother Abu Mus’ab al-Mawsili  detonated his explosive vehicle in the midst of their gathering near the shirki ‘Askari shrine in the city of Samarra. This was followed by our brother Abu ‘Abdil-Malik al-Mawsili  detonating his explosive vest on those who survived the first attack. Forty seven murtaddin were killed, amongst whom were 15 Iranian Rafidah, and 80 others were wounded. The third istishhadi operation was carried out by our brother Abu Suhayb ash-Shammari , who detonated his explosive vehicle on a group of Rafidi security personnel at the Anwa checkpoint in Takrit, killing 25 of them and injuring approximately 30 others, in addition to destroying 7 military vehicles. Anbar Wilayah On the 6th of Safar, an Islamic State covert unit planted and detonated an explosive device on a vehicle carrying four American soldiers working for a security company in the area of Tamim southwest of Ramadi, leading to them being killed. Somalia On the 6th of Safar, the soldiers of the Khilafah launched an attack with hand grenades on a police station in the neighborhood of Tawfiq in the city of Mogadishu. The murtadd deputy commander for the police station was wounded in the attack and died from his wounds the following day. On the 9th of Safar, the soldiers of the Khilafah thwarted a naval attack by the murtadd Somali army on the town of Qandala located near the city of Bosaso in the eastern part of Somalia. The murtaddin carried out the attack using four small boats and an unidentified warship. The attack did not last long, as the mujahidin confronted them and forced them to retreat towards the city of Bosaso. Tunisia On the 6th of Safar, the soldiers of the Khilafah assassinated a soldier of the murtadd Tunisian army in his home at Mount Mughilah in Qasrayn in the western part of Tunisia. Khurasan Wilayah On the 12th of Safar, our istishhadi brother Abu ‘Abdillah al-Khurasani  set out towards a group of Rafidi apostates in the city of Hubb in the area of Baluchistan. He detonated his explosive vest in their midst, killing approximately 35 and injuring 95 of them. On the 16th of Safar, our istishhadi brother Talhah al-Khurasani  detonated his explosive vest on a bus carrying members of the murtadd Afghan intelligence in the area of Bul Muhammad in the city of Kabul, and succeeded in killing and injuring approximately 20 of them. On the 21st of Safar, our istishhadi brother Hamzah al-Khurasani  set out with an explosive vest containing 16kg of explosive substances and detonated it inside a Rafidi temple where approximately 1000 Rafidah were conducting their shirki rituals. The blessed operation succeeded in killing and injuring approximately 200 of them. South Baghdad Wilayah On the 14th of Safar, 5 soldiers of the Khilafah – our brothers Abu Yaqin al-Mawsili, Abu Mahmud ash-Shami, Abu Ritaj ash-Shami, Abu Sayyaf ash-Shami, Abu Dujanah al- Mawsili  – carried out an inghimasi operation armed with assault rifles, hand grenades, and explosive belts targeting a gathering of Rafidi apostates in the area of ‘Ayn at-Tamr in the defiled city of Karbala. They clashed with them for several hours, and after exhausting their ammunition they detonated their explosive belts on the apostates one after another, killing and injuring more than 60 of them. A 6th soldier of the Khilafah – Abu Muhammad al-Furati  – then set out in the evening and detonated his explosive belt on a group of Rafidi soldiers in the same area, killing 11 of them and injuring a number of others. On the 24th of Safar, our istishhadi brother Abu Fahd al-‘Iraqi  set out with his explosive truck and succeeded in reaching a gathering of Rafidi pilgrims at one of the rest stops on the outskirts of the city of Hillah south of Baghdad. He detonated his truck on the gathering, killing and injuring more than 200 Rafidi apostates, among them Iranians. ‘Adan Abyan Wilayah On the 22nd of Safar, the soldiers of the Khilafah assassinated an intelligence colonel using a silenced handgun in the city of ‘Adan. America On the 29th of Safar, a soldier of the Islamic State, our brother ‘Abdur-Razzaq ‘Ali Artan , carried out an attack at Ohio State University that led to 11 kafir Americans being wounded. He ran over several of them with his vehicle, before attacking a number of others with his knife. The attack was carried out in response to the Islamic State’s call to target the citizens of the nations involved in the Crusader coalition. Prior to carrying out his blessed operation, ‘Abdur-Razzaq  left the following message: In the Name of Allah, the Most Merciful and the Most Gracious. My brothers and sisters, I am sick and tired of seeing my fellow Muslim brothers and sisters being killed and tortured everywhere. Seeing my fellow Muslims being tortured, raped, and killed in Burma led to a boiling point. I can’t take it anymore. America, stop interfering with the Muslim Ummah. We are not weak. We are not weak, remember that. If you want us Muslims to stop carrying out “lone wolf ” attacks, then make peace with the Islamic State. Make a pact or a treaty with them where you promise to leave them alone, you and your fellow apostate allies. By Allah, we will not let you sleep unless you give peace to the Muslims. I am warning you, O America! And, a message to the Muslims, don’t listen to celebrity scholars who sold their religion. I am talking about the likes of Yasir Qadhi, Omar Suleiman, Nouman Ali Khan, Mufti Menk, and the list goes on. Beware of AlMaghrib Institute. Listen instead to our hero Imam Anwar al-‘Awlaki. Let me ask you this question: If Muhammad, peace and blessings be upon him, and his Sahabah were here today, wouldn’t the western media call them “terrorists”? To conclude: By Allah, I am willing to kill a billion infidels in retribution for a single Muslim or Muslimah.