‘Abdullah Ibn as-Sa’di  said, “We came as a delegation to Allah’s Messenger . My companions went in and the Prophet  met their needs. I was the last of them to enter. He said, ‘What is your need?’ I said, ‘O Messenger of Allah, those behind me claim that hijrah has ceased. When does hijrah cease?’ Allah’s Messenger  said, ‘Your need is better than their needs. Hijrah does not cease as long as the kuffar are fought” (Reported by Ahmad, an-Nasai, and Ibn Hibban). Abu Hind al-Bajali said, “We were with Mu’awiyah while he was on his bed, and he had closed his eyes. So we mentioned hijrah to one another. One of us said, ‘It has ceased.’ Another of us said, ‘It has not ceased.’ Mu’awiyah awoke and said, ‘What were you talking about?’ So we told him, and though he did not often narrate hadith from the Prophet , he said, ‘We were once talking in front of Allah’s Messenger  and he said, ‘Hijrah will not cease until tawbah (repentance) ceases, and tawbah will not cease until the sun rises from the west’’” (Reported by Ahmad, Abu Dawud, and ad-Darimi). Yes, hijrah will not cease as long as the enemy – the kuffar and the murtaddin – are fought, whether that means the fight is in Iraq or Sham, or whether the fight is somewhere else. For there will be an armed group of this ummah fighting for the cause of Allah until the Messiah  descends to lead them in the last of the epic battles, shortly before the Hour is established – just as the truthful and trustworthy Prophet  explained. So no matter how much the cross worshipers and murtaddin strive to cut off the road to hijrah, some roads will remain open for those who put their trust in Allah. And the call of the muhajirin on the path to the frontlines of Islam is, “Indeed, my Lord will guide me to the right path” (Al-Qasas 22), “Verily I am going to my Lord – He will guide me” (As-Saffat 99), “Verily I am a muhajir to my Lord – verily He is the Mighty, the Wise” (Al-‘Ankabut 26), and, “I have hastened to You, my Lord, that You be pleased” (Taha 84). Thus, their role models in hijrah are the determined messengers  who were harmed for the sake of Allah and who never considered the torment they received from people to be on par with the punishment of Allah. Rather, the muhajir unto Allah knows that his path contains hardships and trials, which will bring the slave closer to his Master, as is in the qudsi hadith, “If he comes closer to Me by a hand span, I will come closer to him by an arm’s length. And if he comes closer to Me by an arm’s length, I will come closer to him the span of two arms outstretched. And if he comes to Me walking, I will come to him running” (Reported by al Bukhari and Muslim from Abu Hurayrah). However much that path requires of blood and sweat for it to be crossed, the muhajir will strive to obtain the good reward and pleasure of Allah. He will wage jihad against his greatest enemy (Shaytan), who stands in his way to a land in which he can live as a muwahhid mujahid, dignified and honored; and if he were to die or be killed, then his abode would be a seat of truth in the presence of a Powerful King, Allah. Allah’s Messenger  said, “Shaytan has sat in wait for the son of Adam on his many paths. He sat in wait for him on his path to Islam, and he said, ‘Will you accept Islam and leave your religion and the religion of your forefathers and their forefathers?’ So he disobeyed him and accepted Islam. Then he sat in wait for him on his path to hijrah, and he said, ‘Will you emigrate and abandon your land and your sky? The muhajir is like a horse fastened by a rope to a peg!’ So he disobeyed him and emigrated. Then he sat in wait for him on his path to jihad, and he said, ‘It is the exhaustion of oneself and his wealth. You will fight and be killed. Your wife will remarry and your wealth will be divided.’ So he disobeyed him and waged jihad. Whoever does this and then dies or is killed or drowns or falls from a mount, breaking his back, it is then incumbent upon Allah to enter him into Jannah” (Reported by Ahmad, an-Nasai, and Ibn Hibban from Sabrah Ibn Abi Fakih). So hijrah inevitably ends with forgiveness and Jannah, as long as the muhajir sincerely dedicates his intention to Allah and remains firm in His cause. Allah  said, “Whoever makes hijrah for Allah’s cause will find in the earth many places of refuge and abundance. And whoever leaves his house as a muhajir unto Allah and His Messenger, and then death overtakes him, then his reward is then incumbent upon Allah, and Allah is forgiving and merciful” (An-Nisa 100). Indeed, there is great blessing in hijrah. If the muwahhid but knew this, he would sell everything he owns of worldly possessions in order to purchase his salvation and seek the pleasure of Allah. ‘Amr Ibn al-‘As  said, “When Allah instilled the love of Islam in my heart, I came to the Prophet  and said, ‘Stretch out your right hand so that I may pledge allegiance to you.’ He stretched out his right hand and I withdrew mine. He said, ‘What has happened to you, O ‘Amr?’ I replied, ‘I want to stipulate a condition.’ He said, ‘What condition do you want to stipulate?’ I said, ‘That I be forgiven.’ The Prophet responded, ‘Are you not aware that Islam wipes out all previous sins, that hijrah wipes out all previous sins, and that hajj wipes out all previous sins?” (Reported by Muslim). At-Tufayl Ibn ‘Amr ad-Dawsi  narrated that when he made hijrah to Madinah, a man from his tribe made hijrah with him. They found the climate of Madinah unpleasant and the man became ill and began to lose hope of recovering. He then took some broad arrowheads he had and cut his knuckles, so blood gushed from his hands until he died. At-Tufayl Ibn ‘Amr later saw him in a dream, seeing him in a good state and seeing that he was covering his hands. At-Tufayl said to him, “What did your Lord do with you?” He said, “He forgave me due to my hijrah to His Prophet .” At-Tufayl said, “Why do I see you covering your hands?” He said, “It was said to me, ‘We will never mend of you what you have damaged.’” At-Tufayl told this to Allah’s Messenger , who then said, “O Allah, forgive him also for what he did to his two hands” (Reported by Muslim). Yes, indeed the Master  forgave a man who killed himself due to a hijrah done solely for Allah. So if the schemes of the tawaghit have prevented you from performing hijrah to Iraq and Sham, then know that the doors of hijrah will remain open until the Hour is established. So whoever is unable to perform hijrah to Iraq and Sham, then he should perform hijrah to Libya, Khurasan, Yemen, Sinai, West Africa, or any of the other wilayat and outposts of the Khilafah in the East and the West.