Question: Eight months have passed since our interview with Shaykh ‘Abdul-Qadir an-Najdi . Could you summarize for us the most important events the Libyan wilayat have witnessed during this period? Answer: All praise is due to Allah, the Strong, the Capable, the Exalted, whose power is such that “when He intends for a people ill, there is no repelling it, and there is no patron besides Him” (Ar-Ra’d 11). The heavens and the earth have come to Him willingly and by compulsion. He has spread the earth and anchored the mountains. “The thunder and the angels exalt Him with praise out of fear of Him. He sends thunderbolts and strikes therewith whom He wills, while they dispute about Allah. And He is severe in assault” (Ar-Ra’d 13). May blessings and peace be upon the cheerful warrior, and upon all his family and companions. As for what follows: About your question concerning the rapid events that have passed by the mujahidin as quickly as the clouds, then indeed the prophets and messengers of Allah and those who follow in their footsteps and tread their path of guidance – from among the Sahabah, the Tabi’in, and the mujahidin – have one way, one path, and one history. The first of them are like the last of them in that they all will have suffered hunger, tribulations, hardship, and distress due to a tremendous wisdom decreed by our Lord . Then, when their means all become constricted and they almost despair, there comes to them the support of Allah – if He knows there to be goodness in the hearts of His slaves – and there comes to them what is better than all that has been taken from them. Eight months of waging jihad against the enemies of Allah and endeavoring to establish His law on His earth have gone by. There were conquests and victories in the regions and villages under the control and influence of Martin Kobler, Paolo Gentiloni, Hollande, and Obama, as well as the expulsion and impairment of their allies, including the army and battalions of both the “National Accord” and “National Congress” governments, in order to forcefully take the land from them and it thereby attains the honor of returning to the embrace of the Khilafah, the authority of the Shari’ah, and the divine laws, after centuries of misguidance. Thereafter, they attacked once again in a battle in which the mujahidin sacrificed – and continue to sacrifice – everything precious and dear to them to protect the issue of tawhid and defend the boundaries of the Shari’ah. It is a battle in which the soldiers of the Khilafah were victorious in its first days when they chose death in the path of Allah so that the murtaddin would not take a step in Dar al-Islam except over the pure bodies of the shuhada. Thus, they rendered the Dunya cheap, aspiring towards what was with Allah, and competed to join the caravans of the devout mujahidin, and that is the clear victory. Question: Perhaps the subject of the Crusader campaign against Tarabulus Wilayah – in which the murtaddin of what is known as “Operation Solid Structure” are partaking – is the most important of events that have marked this period. How did the attack of the Sahwat on the city of Sirte begin? And why is there a lot of insistence from them on entering the city despite the heavy cost they have suffered in seeking to achieve that? Answer: Indeed, the Crusader enemies of Allah have become fearful for their fortresses and strongholds due to the capture by the Islamic State of vast areas throughout the coasts of North Africa in Libya, its implementation of the Shari’ah, its spreading of tawhid, its crushing of shirk, and its incitement to wage jihad. So they raced to wage war against it and brought forth their vehicles and infantry. It is a war that will not protect them from what they fear and will only increase their mud in dampness, by Allah’s help and tawfiq. Had this war not occurred, the mujahid would have had to re-examine his heart and doubt his intentions. It is a war the mujahidin have entered with tranquility, being certain of victory from Allah after the best of our shuyukh and leaders  raced to meet their Lord, including our leader and shaykh, the former wali of Tarabulus, who led the caravan of inghimasiyyin, storming the murtaddin, and with Allah’s tawfiq, detonated his explosive belt in their midst. Thus, his deeds affirmed his words, and he sacrificed his pure blood for the Shari’ah. We ask Allah to elevate his status and accept him in Firdaws. This occurred about three months ago. The murtadd attack began after the majority of the military battalions under the “Ministry of Defense” in western Libya – particularly the battalions from the city of Misratah – joined forces to wage war against the Shari’ah. They did so having direct contact with the Crusaders and while being under their air cover. But Allah enabled His mujahid slaves to devastate these quarreling battalions, which are joined together by an operations room they have named “The Solid Structure,” and whose strength was declared in the beginning of the battle to be more than ten thousand fighters on the ground, in addition to Crusader-Libyan air cover. These apostates faced a small group of patient believers who anticipated their reward with Allah, believed that they would meet Him, and had confidence in His  promise. Thus, Allah granted His slaves the tawfiq to confront them in one of the greatest battles of tawhid in our era, in defense of a land ruled by the Shari’ah at the hands of Allah’s slaves, who supported themselves with tawhid and deemed their small numbers to be much greater due to the Mighty and Praiseworthy. They fought the enemies of Allah for six consecutive months, in which our Lord bestowed favor upon His weak slaves, and they carried out 120 istishhadi operations targeting the murtaddin and their convoys, in addition to hundreds of explosive devices and ambushes that shattered the murtaddin, killing and injuring nearly 5000 of them until now, and to Allah belongs all praise and favor. The mujahidin were not weakened or shaken by the Crusader-Libyan coalition’s planes, which have carried out nearly 2300 airstrikes up until today, nor by the thousands of rockets and artillery and tank shells. As for the murtaddin’s desperate efforts in battle, they are motivated by their hatred of tawhid and its people, and their wish for the Shari’ah to disappear, in addition to their adherence to the orders of their Crusader masters who fight the Muslims so that they might disbelieve in Allah and make partners for Him in His rule and legislation. They fight the Muslims so that they might throw Allah’s Shari’ah behind their backs and disbelieve in it, believe in democracy, and abandon jihad – and Allah’s refuge is sought. Therefore, the one who is truly happy and victorious is he who meets his Lord while holding onto the ember of tawhid, grasping thereby the most secure handhold. Question: Six months have passed since the start of the battle and the murtaddin have still not been able to end the battle in Sirte despite the Crusaders supporting them by land and by air. What is the direct reason – after Allah’s grace – for the delay in the murtaddin’s advance this entire period? And what are the most important military tactics that have brought about this large amount of losses in their ranks? Answer: This steadfastness from the soldiers of the Khilafah in the city of Sirte is entirely tawfiq from Allah. They remained steadfast because of their firm belief that all the things Allah  has created – whether rocks, trees, sand, valleys, mountains, rain, wind, the darkness of night, or the light of day – are His slaves and His creation. These things bow and prostrate to Him, are allies of His patrons, have enmity towards His enemies, and dislike that Allah be disobeyed on His earth. These things are ready soldiers utilized by Allah to bring victory to His patrons when He  wishes. As for our methods of fighting, alhamdulillah, the brothers have utilized several methods in this war that were a reason – after Allah’s tawfiq – for the battle continuing until now, including booby-traps, explosive devices, tunnels, and encircling maneuvers which have frustrated the enemies of Allah. From here, the desert detachments present outside of Sirte and scattered along the coastal line between Sirte and Misratah had a major role and tremendous effect in extending the duration of the battle inside the neighborhoods of Sirte. These detachments conducted assaults and excursions with istishhadi operations that penetrated the murtaddin’s fortifications and explosive devices, ambushes, and checkpoints on the enemy’s supply routes that bled the murtaddin heading to wage war against the Shari’ah in Sirte. We will not miss the opportunity to mention one of the battles, when one of the desert detachments carried out an inghimasi attack after the brothers gave bay’ah promising not to turn their faces until they met their Lord. They stormed the city of Sirte from its eastern side and took control of the area of Sawawah, the city’s port, the Sirte Hotel, and the Diplomatic Guest Palaces after traversing 30 kilometers inside the areas controlled by the murtaddin. There did not remain between them and their brothers besieged in Sirte except one street. They were then killed while advancing, not retreating, after having infuriated and massacred the patrons of Shaytan. The murtaddin called on the Crusader planes for help, leading to our knights rejoicing in shahadah in the path of their Lord, in support of their brothers and sisters, and in defense of the Shari’ah. They departed while advancing and not retreating. We judge them to be shuhada and do not place our judgment of them above Allah’s. Question: The Crusaders and their murtadd agents are raising their own hopes that their battle in Sirte will be the last of the battles against the Islamic State. What do you have to say on this? Answer: This is what Shaytan promises them, but Shaytan does not promise them except delusion, for indeed our Lord  is strong and mighty. He does not humiliate His soldiers and does not cause His awliya to be vanquished. His slaves are victorious and His army prevails. The mujahidin will always be superior. The Crusaders and their murtadd followers will be defeated and humiliated upon their divided paths. Indeed America, Italy, France, Britain, and all the united Crusader nations that have dug themselves in for war against the Khilafah, no matter how audacious or arrogant they may be, do not have the power to draw benefit to themselves or ward off harm. Indeed, they are more ignoble than as to be able to create a fly, even if they were to gather to do so. Rather, they are more lowly and insignificant than as to be able to recover something that a fly takes away from them with its snout. “Feeble is the seeker and the one sought. They did not make a just estimate of Allah. Indeed, Allah is powerful and exalted in might.” (Al-Hajj 73-74). Likewise, they are more lowly and insignificant than as to wage war against Allah or exercise enmity towards His awliya. You will see the tawaghit of the United Nations and all those who are insolent towards our Lord today kneeling on the Day of Judgment. “And you will see every nation kneeling [from fear]” (Al-Jathiyah 28). We say to those miserable, stubborn, disbelieving, apostates who wage war against the mujahidin today in Sirte and who hate the Shari’ah, you are fighting an ummah that has not become barren and a creed that will not be defeated. Indeed, the detachments of the mujahidin spread today throughout the deserts of Libya will make you taste severe hardship and will reclaim the cities and areas once more, by Allah’s power and strength. As for our message to those sitting back from carrying out the personal duty of jihad in Misratah specifically, and in all the cities in western Libya generally, we remind them that they have a glorious history of sacrifice and jihad. The best of their sons are those who are fighting today in Sirte, and before them, hundreds were among the best men of the Islamic State to be killed in Iraq and Sham. They were killed at the hands of the same Crusader coalition and by the same planes that are demolishing homes and buildings on the heads of their inhabitants today in Sirte. So we call on you to stand with your mujahid sons in the Islamic State, to deter others from fighting them, to prevent anyone who fought under the banner of the Cross in Sirte and declared war against the Shari’ah from continuing to do so, and to call them to repent to Allah before they are overpowered and are added to the list of the dead. Indeed, in killing there is preservation of life. Question: Concerning the regions outside of Sirte, how do you view the situation of the soldiers of the Khilafah in the rest of the Libyan regions? Answer: All praise and favor belong to Allah. We give glad tidings to the Muslims in general and the mujahidin in specific that their mujahid brothers in the Libyan wilayat continue to be upon abundant goodness and tremendous grace from Allah. Their covert units are scattered throughout all the cities and regions, and their detachments cruise the deserts both east and west. These days are but a temporary trial that will be followed by conquest and consolidation, by Allah’s power and strength. Indeed, Allah will not make lost the blood that has flowed in defense of the Shari’ah and to repel its enemies. Allah will surely support those who support Him. Question: In the period preceding the battle of Sirte, a large number of muhajirin flooded into the Libyan wilayat. Is the path for making hijrah to you still open? And what is the significance of the muhajirin in your arena of jihad? Answer: Alhamdulillah, the path was and continues to be open for whoever wants hijrah, seeks the pleasure of Allah, and makes his intention sincerely for Him . The muwahiddin – both Arab and non-Arab – continue to arrive from all places to fulfill the obligation of jihad, and to take revenge for the pure blood that has been spilled by the enemies of the religion, all the while showing zuhd towards the Dunya and its fleeting pleasures. They cross the deserts to fight those who disbelieve in the Lord of the heavens and the earth. And Allah is sufficient as a supporter. As for their significance in the Libyan arena of jihad, then it is by their efforts, alongside that of their beloved ansar – after the grace of Allah – that the rulings of the Shari’ah were established and the enemies of Allah were fought. Indeed, from Allah’s blessings upon us is that many people marched forth to our wilayat not allowing their legit excuses to hold them back. They were a proof against those who fabricate excuses for themselves from marching forth. Likewise, others who were held back by their lack of wealth sold their homes, properties, and possessions in order to join the caravan of the mujahidin. Allah  said, “Then, indeed your Lord, to those who emigrated after they had been exposed to fitnah and thereafter fought [for the cause of Allah] and were patient – indeed, your Lord, after that, is forgiving and merciful” (An-Nahl 110). We ask Allah to accept their hijrah and jihad. And with Allah is the best of rewards. Question: How is the situation of the city of Sirte and its people now after the murtaddin have taken control over large parts of the city? And have any residents left the city since the campaign began? Answer: The enemies of Allah, through their war on the city of Sirte, have brought a halt to the implementation of the laws of the Shari’ah in an endeavor to replace them with the laws of Kobler and their Crusader masters. Most of our people in Sirte moved to neighboring regions as far back as six months ago – and they continue to do so – during the course of which they suffered hunger and homelessness, with the enemies of Allah adding on top of that the bombardment and destruction of their houses and the looting of their properties. We give glad tidings to the ummah of our prophet, Muhammad , that their sons, the mujahidin, will continue with their fight until there is no fitnah and the religion, all of it, is for Allah. Question: The main reason for the Crusader campaign against the Islamic State in the Libyan wilayat is the fear of the mujahidin’s operations expanding to the neighboring states of the tawaghit. The Crusaders and their agents discuss the subject of securing the regions neighboring Libya after this campaign. What are your comments on that? Answer: Jihad for the cause of Allah – to raise high His word – and fighting His enemies will not be stopped by the condition of any ruler. Our Lord will not leave a single home except that He will enter this religion into it, whether by the honoring of some peoples or the humiliating of others – an honor by which Allah gives might to Islam, and a humiliation by which Allah disgraces kufr. Allah’s Messenger  said, “Indeed, Allah gathered for me the earth, then I saw its east and its west, and the rule of my ummah will reach all that was gathered for me of it” (Reported by Muslim from Thawban). Indeed, these great battles which the mujahidin are engaging in today and the entrance of thousands of muwahhidin into the arenas of jihad seeking the places of shahadah are all good tidings of the dispersing of oppression and the emergence of the truth, “But you are indeed being hasty” (Reported by al-Bukhari from Khabbab Ibn al-Arat). Question: How do you view the condition of the “National Accord” and “National Congress” governments today? And what will be the future of your operations against these two murtadd governments? Answer: They have got “National Accord,” “National Congress,” “Parliament,” and possibly fourth and fifth governments. This is the condition of the murtadd governments in Libya. They curse one another, their hearts are divided, and they wish for calamity to strike one another. Allah has divided them and has made them enemies of one another. They are disunited, and when they come together, there is infighting between them, even on the battlefronts that have brought them together to wage war against the religion. Indeed, the soldiers of the Khilafah obey the command of their Lord to fight all those who wage war against His religion and show enmity towards His awliya. Yes, we fight and make takfir of them all, we openly declare our enmity and hatred towards them, and we condemn their democracy and shirk as our Lord has commanded, for we are not from among those who seek to purchase their love or pursue their pleasure for a fleeting portion of the Dunya, nor are we from among those who seek the means to come closer to them. Many who used to call to supporting the Shari’ah and to the love of tawhid and its people fell into their snares and suddenly became supporters of the tawaghit, grieving for their losses and fighting in their brigades, detachments, and ministries of defense. And refuge is sought with Allah. Question: Do you have advice for the soldiers of the Islamic State in the Libyan wilayat? And do you have a general message you would like to direct to the soldiers of the Islamic State everywhere? Answer: To the best of mankind today, to the patient and reward-seeking mujahidin in Sirte, Benghazi, Mosul, Halab, and all other places: Indeed, your Lord is near and responsive. He sees your place and hears your speech. You relied upon Him and adhered to the means of success with which He  has commanded. You ordered good, prohibited evil, established the religion, and fought the kuffar and murtaddin. Our Lord has promised those who gather for His obedience with victory, consolidation, succession to authority, inheritance of the land, that the best outcome will be for them, and that He will drive them to Jannah in groups. Indeed, Your Lord  did not decree affliction for His slaves except in order to separate the good from the evil and the truthful from the claimants. And it is not for Allah to reveal to you the unseen. You find among the slaves of Allah one whose condition is such that if a wound, affliction, hardship, or difficulty touches him, he makes bad assumptions about his Lord. He thinks that the disbelievers are above us and subduing us, that they have escaped us, that they have become dominant so there is none who can defeat them, that they will extinguish the light of Allah with their mouths, and that Allah will not perfect His light. We seek Allah’s refuge from such thoughts. They assume of Allah other than the truth – the assumption of Jahiliyyah. “That was your assumption which you assumed about your Lord. It has brought you to ruin, and you have become among the losers” (Fussilat 23). Abu Muslim al-Khawlani  said, “Fear the judgment of the believer, for indeed Allah has placed the truth upon his tongue and heart” (Ibn ‘Abdil-Barr: Bahjat al-Majalis). Indeed, our Lord  said in a qudsi hadith, “I am according to My slave’s assumption of Me. If he assumes good then he will have it, and if he assumes bad then he will have it” (Reported by Ahmad and Ibn Hibban from Abu Hurayrah). “Then what do you assume regarding the Lord of creation?” (As-Saffat 87).