Authored by Ibn Taymiyyah Abridged by Ibn ‘Abdil-Wahhab Know – may Allah have mercy upon you – that since Allah sent Muhammad  and honored him with hijrah and victory, mankind has divided into three groups: the muminin (believers), who are those who believe in him inwardly [in the heart] and outwardly [in words and deeds]; the kuffar (disbelievers), those who disbelieve in him outwardly, and the munafiqin (hypocrites), those who believe in him outwardly but not inwardly. In this regards, Allah commenced Surat al-Baqarah with four verses describing the believers, two describing the disbelievers, and thirteen describing the hypocrites. Iman (belief ), kufr (disbelief ), and nifaq (hypocrisy) each have pillars and branches, as proven by the Book and the Sunnah and as explained by ‘Ali Ibn Abi Talib  in a narration reported from him. Nifaq includes major nifaq, which causes one to be in the lowest level of Hellfire. This is like the nifaq of ‘Abdullah Ibn Ubayy and others and it includes belying the Messenger, rejecting part of what he brought, hating him, not believing it to be obligatory to follow him, reveling in the losses suffered by his religion, or becoming upset over victories for his religion, and similar traits only held by the enemies of Allah and His Messenger. This form of hypocrisy existed during the life of the Messenger  and it continues to exist thereafter, even more so, since the causes of iman were stronger in his time. If hypocrisy existed despite the strength of iman then, it is more likely to exist in later times. This is major nifaq, from which we seek refuge with Allah. As for minor nifaq, then it is hypocrisy in one’s own actions, like lying when speaking, going back on one’s promise, or betraying trusts, as is famously reported from the Prophet, that he said, “The signs of the munafiq – even if he prays, fasts, and claims to be a Muslim – are three: When he speaks, he lies, when he promises, he goes back on his promise, and when he is entrusted, he betrays the trust” (Reported by Muslim from Abu Hurayrah). Included in this category is the abandonment of jihad, as this is a trait of the munafiqin, as he  said, “Whoever dies without having fought nor having incited himself to fight, dies upon a trait of nifaq” (Reported by Muslim from Abu Hurayrah). Allah revealed Surat Baraah [at-Tawbah], which was also called al-Fadihah (the Exposer) because it exposed the munafiqin, just as Ibn ‘Abbas  said, “It is the Exposer, as ‘And amongst them are…,’ continued being revealed until they thought that no one would be spared from being mentioned therein.” Al-Miqdad Ibn al-Aswad said, “It is Surat al-Bahuth (the Seeker) because it sought out the secrets of the munafiqin.” Qatadah said, “It is al-Muthirah (the Revealer), because it revealed the scandals of the munafiqin.” This surah was revealed in the last of the Messenger’s  battles, during the Battle of Tabuk, after Allah had honored Islam and made it victorious. So He revealed therein the conditions of the munafiqin, describing them with cowardice and stinginess. As for cowardice, then that is in their abandoning jihad. And as for stinginess, then that is in their turning away from spending for the cause of Allah. Allah  said, “Those who are stingy with what Allah has given them of His bounty should not think it is something good for them. Rather, it is bad for them. On the Day of Resurrection, they will be strangled by what they withheld. And to Allah belongs the inheritance of the heavens and the earth, and Allah is informed about what you do” (Al ‘Imran 180). He also said, “Whoever turns away on that day, unless changing direction for combat or joining [another] company [of troops], then he has earned the wrath of Allah; and his abode is Hellfire – what a wretched destination” (Al Anfal 16). Also, regarding them being described therein with cowardice and panic, He  said, “They swear by Allah that they are of you, but they are not of you. Rather, they are a people who are fearful – if only they could find a refuge,” like strongholds and fortresses, “or caverns,” in which they could settle, “or any tough entrance,” no matter how difficult it could be, “they would turn thereto,” away from jihad, “while running in flight,” i.e. moving swiftly, undeterred by anything, just as a wild horse bolts uncontrollably (At-Tawbah 56-57). Allah  also said, “The believers are only those who believe in Allah and His Messenger – then do not doubt – and wage jihad with their wealth and their selves for Allah’s cause. These, they are the truthful” (Al-Hujurat 15), so He defined believers as those who believe and wage jihad. He  also said, “Those who believe in Allah and the Last Day do not seek your permission to be excused from waging jihad with their wealth and their selves, and Allah is aware of those with taqwa. Only those who do not believe in Allah and the Last Day seek your permission [to be excused from waging jihad]. Their hearts are in doubt, thus they waver in their doubt” (At-Tawbah 44-45). This is Allah saying that the believer does not seek permission to leave jihad, and that only those who do not believe seek such permission. How, then, about one who leaves jihad without even asking permission?! He  said, describing them with stinginess, “Nothing prevented their contributions from being accepted from them except that they disbelieved in Allah and in His Messenger, that they do not come to prayer except while being lazy, and that they do not spend [for Allah’s cause] except reluctantly” (At-Tawbah 54). If this is Allah’s  censure of one who spends for Allah’s cause, but reluctantly, then what about one who does not spend at all?! He  also explained that when the munafiqin came close to Madinah, they would sometimes say, “What happened to us is due to the misfortune you bring, as you called people to this religion, fought them because of it, and opposed them.” At other times, they would say, “You told us to stay here; otherwise, if we had just abandoned the city, this would not have happened to us.” At other times, they would say, “You, with your small numbers and weakness, want to break the enemy?! Your religion has deluded you!” At other times, they would say, “You are insane; you have no minds. You want to destroy yourselves and those with you!” At other times, they would say different kinds of harmful speech, thus Allah  described them, saying, “They think the factions have not yet parted, and if the factions do come [again], they would like to betake themselves to the Bedouins, asking about your news [from afar]. And if they remained with you, they would not fight except very little” (Al-Ahzab 20). So He  described them with three traits. The first trait was that they – due to their fear – thought that the factions had not yet left the area. This is the condition of the coward in whose heart is a disease, as his heart is quick to believe frightful news and reject news of safety and security. The second trait was that these hypocrites wished not to be amongst the Muslims when the factions arrived. Rather, they wished to be in the desert, among the Bedouins, asking about the Muslims’ news from afar, “What is the news of Madinah? What is the news of the people?” The third trait is that when the factions arrived with these hypocrites amongst the Muslims, the hypocrites would not fight except very little. Indeed, these three traits are applicable to many people today.