All praise belongs to Allah, the Lord of creation, and may blessings and peace be upon the Seal of the Prophets and Messengers. To proceed: The saying, “Indeed, Allah has blessed me” (An-Nisa 72) – in the context of the surah – was not the saying of the believers and the truthful, those who were grateful to Allah for His blessings; rather, it was the saying of the munafiqin, when they stayed back from combat, distancing themselves from the site of tribulation, death, and injury. It is a saying considered acceptable by those who stay back from a battle in which the mujahidin lose a round of combat, withdraw from an area, or are killed in large numbers. The source of this saying is nothing but ignorance of the true blessing for which the believer must be grateful. Explaining His  saying, “Of you is he who lingers behind; then, if a disaster strikes you, he says, ‘Indeed Allah has blessed me, since I was not present with them’” (An-Nisa 72), Ibn Kathir  said, “Mujahid and others said that this was revealed about the munafiqin. Muqatil Ibn Hayyan said, ‘‘Lingers behind’ means he stays back from jihad.’ This could possibly mean that he himself lingers behind and makes others linger behind from jihad. This is like what ‘Abdullah Ibn Ubayy Ibn Salul (may Allah curse him) would do. He would delay waging jihad and then discourage others from going out for battle. This is the opinion of Ibn Jurayj and at-Tabari on this verse. For such, Allah  revealed what the munafiq who delays waging jihad would say, ‘then, if a disaster strikes you,’ meaning death, shahadah, or the enemy overcoming you, all by Allah’s wisdom, ‘he says, ‘Indeed Allah has blessed me, since I was not present with them,’’ meaning since I was not present with them during the battle. He considers that to have been from Allah’s blessings upon him, not realizing how much passed him by of reward for patience or shahadah.” When the muwahhid knows this and hears that a group of his brothers have been afflicted by a test or tribulation, he is certain that the true blessing is to have been afflicted alongside them or to have been killed before them. For fleeing from shahadah is not a blessing. Rather, the blessing would be for the slave to plunge into the midst of battle, to be on the frontlines, and to not turn his face away until he is killed. This is the true blessing. This is the correct understanding, which the believer must set firmly in his soul, thus seeking to be killed wherever he expects that. Allah’s Messenger  said, “Of the best livelihood for people, is that a man takes hold of his steed’s reins in the cause of Allah, flying on its back; whenever he hears a battle cry or other sound of war, he flies to it, in search of being killed or dying in its most expected places” (Reported by Muslim from Abu Hurayrah). One of the ugliest of sayings and deeds of the munafiqin is their grief after missing out on what Allah grants His believing slaves of victory and ghanimah (war booty). He  said, “If some favor from Allah reaches you, he will surely say, as if there had never been any love between you and him, ‘Oh, if only I had been with them, then I could have achieved a great success’” (An-Nisa 73). Ibn Kathir said, “‘If some favor from Allah reaches you,’ meaning victory, triumph, and ghanimah, ‘he will surely say, as if there had never been any love between you and him,’ meaning as if he were not from the people of your religion, ‘‘Oh, if only I had been with them, then I could have achieved a great success,’’ meaning I could have taken a share of what they obtained, and that such is his greatest concern and intention.” In conclusion, whoever regrets missing out on ghanimah or triumph or is joyful for staying behind when Muslims are afflicted in battle, then he must review his iman, he must fear his Lord, and he must abundantly ask Allah for guidance and steadfastness, and all praise belongs to Allah, the Lord of creation.