Indeed, having patience during war and being steadfast when the battle rages are among the best deeds according to Allah. These are characteristics of those who have taqwa (reverent fear) and those whom Allah has praised in His noble book, saying, “Those who have patience during poverty and hardship and at the time of battle, these are those who are truthful; and these are those with taqwa” (Al-Baqarah 177). Likewise, His Messenger  made these traits those of the best shuhada. When he  was asked, “Who are the best of shuhada,” he said, “Those who, if they are cast into the fray, do not turn their faces until they are killed. These will recline in the lofty chambers of Jannah. Your Lord laughs [out of His contentment with] them, and when your Lord laughs for a slave in the Dunya, then the slave has nothing to account for” (Reported by Ahmad from Nu’aym Ibn Hammar). Considering the danger of retreating before the enemy and fleeing out of fear of death, and what that entails of disrupting the Muslim row and being a cause for enemy victory, Allah  warned His believing slaves of this sin, which results in Allah’s wrath upon the perpetrator and causes him to enter the fire of Jahannam. He  said, “O you who believe, when you meet those who disbelieve in battle, do not turn in flight. And whoever turns away on that day, unless changing direction for combat or joining [another] company [of troops], then he has earned the wrath of Allah; and his abode is Hellfire – what a wretched destination” (Al-Anfal 15-16). Therefore, turning away on the day of battle is one of the greatest of sins, just as the Prophet  said, “Avoid the seven grievous sins.” They said, “O Messenger of Allah, what are they?” He said, “Committing shirk with Allah, sorcery, killing a soul that Allah forbade to be killed except for a rightful cause, consuming the orphan’s wealth, consuming interest, turning away on the day of battle, and defaming believing, unaware, chaste women” (Reported by al-Bukhari and Muslim from Abu Hurayrah). Since the Muslims are like a structure, which is strengthened by each of its parts, the action of the Sahabah  was to give bay’ah (a pledge) to be patient during encounters with the enemy and to be steadfast in battle until they were to be killed or granted victory by Allah. There is much evidence for this from the Book of Allah, the Sunnah of His Prophet , and the actions of the Sahabah . Pledging to Abide by a Virtuous Deed Indeed, fulfilling covenants is an obligation, whether the pledge is to Allah or to one of His slaves, as Allah  said, “Fulfill My covenant – I will fulfill your covenant” (Al-Baqarah 40), and He said, “Fulfill the covenant of Allah, if you make a covenant, and do not break oaths after making them, after you have made Allah a witness over you. Indeed, Allah knows what you do” (An-Nahl 91), and He said, praising the believers, “Those who fulfill their covenants when they make covenants” (Al-Baqarah 177), and, “Certainly, whoever fulfills his covenants and has taqwa, then indeed Allah loves those who have taqwa” (Al ‘Imran 76). And a covenant should only be fulfilled if the mentioned deed is permissible for a Muslim to do, not if it is haram to do. Ibn Taymiyyah  said, “It is not permissible for the children of Adam to make covenants, contracts, oaths, or conditions upon that which conflicts with what Allah and His Messenger have commanded” (Majmu’ al-Fatawa). Permissible deeds include making a covenant to be steadfast during combat. If that combat is in obedience to Allah, like a Muslim fighting the kuffar, Khawarij, or bughat (Muslims who wrongly fight other Muslims), then it is an obligation to fulfill this covenant. But if the fighting is haram, like the combat performed against the Muslim Jama’ah by the mubtadi’ah and the bughat, then it is not permissible to partake therein to begin with, never mind pledging to do so! Rather, it is obligatory to break such a covenant for the sake of seeking nearness to Allah. The Ruling of Pledging to Die in Shar’i Combat About this kind of pledge, Allah  said, “Indeed, those who make a pledge to you are actually pledging to Allah. The hand of Allah is over their hands. So whoever breaks [his oath] then he is only breaking [it] against his own self. And whoever fulfills what he covenanted with Allah, then He shall give him a great reward” (Al-Fath 10). At-Tabari  said, “Allah  is saying to His Prophet Muhammad, ‘Indeed, those who pledge to you at Hudaybiyyah, from amongst your companions, that they will not flee upon encountering the enemy, nor will they retreat, they are actually pledging to Allah.’ That is, their pledge to you is actually a pledge to Allah, because Allah is the One who guarantees them Jannah for their fulfilment thereof.” Ibn Kathir  said, “This pledge was Bay’at ar-Ridwan1 and was made beneath the acacia tree at Hudaybiyyah. The Sahabah who pledged to Allah’s Messenger  that day were said to have been 1,300, 1,400, or 1,500, and the middle number is most correct.” Pledging to fight to the death is a tradition preserved in numerous books of hadith. It was even made into chapter headings by imams like al-Bukhari, who said in his sahih, “Chapter: On the pledge during war to not flee, and some said, ‘to die,’ due to His  saying, ‘Indeed Allah was pleased with the believers when they pledged to you under the tree.’” He then mentioned the related hadith in that chapter. Likewise, an-Nawawi named a chapter in “Sahih Muslim,” “Chapter: On the desirability of the army giving a pledge to the Imam when setting out for combat, and the explanation of Bay’at ar-Ridwan under the tree.” Similarly, an-Nasai made two chapters in “As-Sunan al-Kubra,” one entitled, “To Pledge to Not Flee,” and the other, “To Pledge to Fight to the Death.” The conditions of Bay’at ar-Ridwan were transmitted in several reports from the Sahabah, about which an-Nawawi said, “In the report of Jabir and Ma’qil Ibn Yasar, ‘We pledged to him on the Day of Hudaybiyyah to not flee, and we did not pledge to die [without even fighting],’ and in the report of Salamah, that they pledged to him on that day to fight to the death, which is the same meaning of the report of ‘Abdullah Ibn Zayd Ibn ‘Asim, and in the report of Mujashi’ Ibn Mas’ud, ‘The pledge was to abide by hijrah, Islam, and jihad,’ and in the hadith of Ibn ‘Umar and ‘Ubadah, ‘We pledged to listen and obey and to not dispute the matter of those in authority,’ and in a report from Ibn ‘Umar in other than Sahih Muslim, ‘The pledge was to be patient.’ Scholars have said that this last report combines all of the various meanings, clarifying that the intended meaning of all of the reports is that to pledge to not flee means to have patience until we defeat our enemy or we are killed – and that is the meaning of pledging to die, i.e. we remain steadfast, even if that causes us to die – not that death in and of itself is what is intended. Such is also what is meant by pledging to wage jihad, i.e. to have patience therein, and Allah knows best” (Sharh Sahih Muslim). Ibn Hajar said, “There is no contradiction between their saying that they gave him a pledge to die and not flee, as the intended meaning of pledging to die is to not flee even if doing so results in their deaths. They did not mean that they only sought to die. This is what Nafi’ disapproved of, and instead said, ‘Rather, he took a pledge from them that they would be patient,’ meaning they would be patient in being firm and not fleeing whether that led them to their deaths or not” (Fath al-Bari). Ibnul-Qayyim said, “The Prophet  would have his companions pledge, during war, to not flee, sometimes having them pledge to die” (Zad al-Ma’ad). Ar-Rafi’i said, “It is recommended, when the Imam sends a company of troops, that he appoints an emir over them, commands them to obey him, instructs him regarding them, and that he takes a pledge from the troops that they not flee” (Ash-Sharh al-Kabir). This was what the Sahabah did. The most famous report being that of Yarmuk, where ‘Ikrimah Ibn Abi Jahl  said, on that day, “Who will pledge to die?” So al-Harith Ibn Hisham and Dirar Ibn al-Azwar and 400 of the Muslims’ dignitaries and knights gave a pledge to him. They fought in front of Khalid’s command tent until they all were injured or killed, except those who survived, including Dirar Ibn al-Azwar (Tarikh at-Tabari). Ibn Hajar said, “‘Ikrimah was an emir over some of the cavalry squadrons, and that was in the year 15AH, during the khilafah of ‘Umar” (Al-Isabah fi Tamyiz as Sahabah). This happened in the presence of many Sahabah, and none of them objected. The Obligation of Fulfilling This Pledge Ibnul-Jawzi said, “Breaking a covenant means to abstain from fulfilling what it entails of conditions” (Zad al-Masir), and doing so is forbidden. Allah  said, “Whoever breaks [his oath] then he is only breaking [it] against his own self” (Al-Fath 10). He  also said, “Do not break oaths after making them” (An-Nahl 91). The Prophet  said, “The signs of the munafiq are three: When he speaks, he lies; when he promises, he goes back on his promise; and when he is entrusted, he betrays the trust” (Reported by al-Bukhari and Muslim from Abu Hurayrah). He  also said, “Muslims are bound to their conditions” (Reported by Abu Dawud and al-Hakim). Ibn Taymiyyah said, “Whoever has stipulated a condition and then nullifies it has indeed committed treachery, as the Book and the Sunnah have come with the command to fulfill covenants, conditions, agreements, and contracts, to keep trusts, and to take care in doing so. The Book and the Sunnah have also come with the prohibition of treachery, breaking covenants, and betrayal, and with severity against whoever does so” (Majmu’ al-Fatawa). The warning against treachery has come in the hadith of the Prophet , “A flag is hoisted for each traitor – at his  rear [in disgrace] – on the Day of Resurrection, and it will be said, ‘This is the treachery of so-and-so’” (Reported by al-Bukhari and Muslim from Ibn ‘Umar). Based upon this, it is not permissible for any person who has made a pledge to fight to the death to break that pledge, and it is an even greater crime to do so in hard times for the mujahidin, when the ranks line up to fight, when the enemy nears, or during combat itself. So each Muslim must be careful in fulfilling his covenant to Allah by being steadfast, in fulfilling for his brethren what he pledges to them of having patience during battle, and in not betraying them until Allah grants them victory or he dies seeking that victory, just as he pledged to Allah and pledged to his brothers. And He should remember Allah’s  words, “Among the believers are men who were truthful to the covenants they made with Allah. Of them is he who has fulfilled his vows [and died], and of them is he who is waiting – and they did not alter [their vows] at all” (Al-Ahzab 23).