Allah  clarified for the Ummah the means and conditions for its victory over its enemies so that its honor and triumph would endure as long as it acts in accordance with its knowledge. From among those means are patience and steadfastness. Allah  said, “O you who believe, when you encounter a company [from the enemy forces], stand firm and remember Allah much that you may be successful” (Al-Anfal 45). He  also mentioned that a small, patient group of believers can defeat a large assembly of disbelievers, by Allah’s permission. He  said, “O Prophet, urge the believers to battle. If there are among you twenty [who are] steadfast, they will overcome two hundred. And if there are among you one hundred [who are] steadfast, they will overcome a thousand of those who have disbelieved because they are a people who do not understand” (Al-Anfal 65). The evidences in the biography of the Prophet , the biographies of his followers, and the history of the Muslims prove that patience and perseverance are a major cause for victory. In the Battle of Ahzab (5AH), the mushrikin of the Arabs assembled against the Muslims together with the Jews who had allied with them, and laid siege to the city of the Prophet , until the situation became as Allah  described, “[Remember] when they came at you from above you and from below you, and when eyes shifted [in fear], and hearts reached the throats and you assumed about Allah [various] assumptions. There the believers were tested and shaken with a severe shaking. And [remember] when the hypocrites and those in whose hearts is disease said, ‘Allah and His Messenger did not promise us except delusion’” (Al-Ahzab 10-12). Despite all that, the resolve and steadfastness of the Muslims did not weaken, so they performed ribat on the frontiers of their city. They were not shaken by the scaremongering of the munafiqin. Rather, they had conviction in the promise of Allah’s Messenger  that the best outcome would be for them, and that they would conquer the cities of Sham and Iraq, and smash the thrones of Khosrau and Caesar. Allah  said, “When the believers saw the [hostile] parties, they said, ‘This is what Allah and His Messenger had promised us, and Allah and His Messenger spoke the truth.’ And it increased them only in faith and acceptance” (Al-Ahzab 22). Because of this faith and acceptance, Allah  graced them with victory and defeated their enemy, but only after He had purified them and exposed the munafiqin. Thereafter the conquests came one after another until Allah’s Messenger  passed away in the 11th year after the Hijrah. In that year, there occurred the mass apostatizing of the Arabs, which did not weaken the resolve of as-Siddiq  and his companions. He was patient and steadfast in the face of it, and resolved to carry out the command of Allah to wage jihad against the murtaddin regardless of their equipment and numbers. Thus, in Yamamah (11AH), there occurred the battle with the largest assembly of apostates at the time, which was led by Musaylimah the Liar, and it was not an easy battle. Rather, the Muslims met various hardships therein, to the extent that the murtaddin almost dislodged the Muslims from their positions. Ibnul-Athir said, “The fighting grew fierce, and the Muslims had never witnessed any battle like it. The Muslims were pushed back and Bani Hanifah reached Mujja’ah (a prisoner with the Muslims) and Khalid, and Khalid was forced out of the Muslim encampment.” The Muslims then formed ranks once more, and the Sahabah  – especially the memorizers of Quran among them – began inciting the people to seek shahadah and warning them of the consequence of defeat. Ibnul-Athir said, “The Muslims then called one another. Thabit Ibn Qays said, ‘Horrible is that which you have accustomed yourselves to, O company of Muslims! O Allah, I disavow myself before You of what these ones are doing (meaning the people of Yamamah), and I seek Your pardon for what these ones are doing (meaning those Muslims who were not steadfast).’ He then fought until he was killed… And Abu Hudhayfah said, ‘O, people of the Quran, adorn the Quran with deeds!’ And Khalid charged against the enemy until the Muslims repelled them further back than they had previously been.” The two sides were patient and there was much killing and wounding amongst them. Ibnul-Athir said, “The fighting grew fierce, and Bani Hanifah incited themselves and fought fiercely. That day, the battle was at times in favor of the Muslims and at times in favor of the disbelievers. Salim, Abu Hudhayfah, Zayd Ibn al-Khattab, and other dignitaries were killed.” It was then necessary to separate the combat divisions and determine where the Muslims were being struck from. Ibnul-Athir said, “Then, when they had been separated, they said to each other, ‘Today, retreating is a matter that one should be embarrassed of.’” Thus was the course of a fierce battle from among the battles of this ummah in which it was necessary to sacrifice lives so that the religion would be conveyed in full with no reduction. Ibnul-Athir said, “Many were killed on both sides, especially on the side of Bani Hanifah, and this continued on until Musaylimah was killed. Wahshi – the freed slave of Jubayr Ibn Mut’im – and a man from the Ansar partook in his killing. With the killing of this false prophet, the Muslims concluded the battle and were granted victory after being patient and remaining steadfast. From the results of waging war against the murtaddin was that the Muslims were free to battle the Persian and Roman states and bring their lands under the authority of Islam. At Yarmuk (13AH), the Romans mobilized 240,000 fighters, and the number of Muslim soldiers was 40,000. So the Romans – with their numbers – terrified those who had weakness in their hearts, until one of the Muslims turned to Khalid  and said, “How large in number the Romans are and how few the Muslims are!” So Khalid said, “How large in number the Muslims are and how few the Romans are! The number of soldiers is enlarged by victory and reduced by desertion” (Ibnul-Athir: Al-Kamil). The patience and steadfastness of the Muslims reached the point that, despite their many wounds, they pledged to fight to the death. Ibnul-Athir said, “That day, ‘Ikrimah said, ‘I fought alongside Allah’s Messenger  in every place, so would I then flee today?!’ He then called out, ‘Who will pledge to fight to the death?’ So al-Harith Ibn Hisham and Dirar Ibn al-Azwar gave the pledge along with 400 of the Muslims’ knights and dignitaries, and they fought in front of Khalid’s encampment until they all sustained injuries. Among them were those who survived and among them were those who died.” After this show of patience and steadfastness, Allah bestowed upon them victory and consolidation, and the Romans became weak and fled in defeat without turning to look back. After this, the conquest of Dimashq and other cities of Sham took place. And in the year 14AH, ‘Umar al-Faruq  prepared the armies to meet the Persians in battle and appointed Sa’d Ibn Abi Waqqas  as the commander. From that which he advised him before he marched out – as quoted by at-Tabari – was, “Follow my advice, for you are embarking upon a difficult and bitter matter which none can face except for the truthful. So accustom yourself and those with you to goodness, commence with it, and know that every habit has a means of preparation, and the means of preparation for goodness is patience.” This advice was necessary, especially given the large disparity between the Muslims’ numbers and the numbers of their Majusi Persian enemies, for the Muslims who attended the Battle of Qadisiyyah were some thirty odd thousand in number, and this was after the Muslims’ numbers had been completed and their reinforcements had arrived. As for the numbers of the Persians, they exceeded 200,000 fighters supplied with elephants, the unique weapon of the era (Tarikh at-Tabari). A fierce battle took place over the course of several days, during which the Muslims showed an extreme level of patience. There are too many details to mention, but it’s enough to state that the first day witnessed the killing and wounding of 500 men from the tribe of Asad alone. Ibnul- Athir said, “When the Persians saw what their fighters and elephants were being met with at the hands of the tribe of Asad, they fired their weapons at them and charged them, with Bahman and Jalinus among them. The Muslims were waiting for the fourth takbir from Sa’d. The entire Persian army descended upon Asad along with their elephants, but Asad remained steadfast before them. Then, Sa’d made the fourth takbir… 500 members of the tribe of Asad were struck down that day. They had been support for the fighters... This was the first day, the Day of Armath.” Three days passed as the Muslims repeatedly charged and fell back, and confronted the elephants, showing patience and steadfastness and awaiting Allah’s promise of victory and consolidation. The Muslims spent the night of the fourth day in the harshest of conditions, for they couldn’t sleep and they had to rise once more at sunrise to face their enemy and pull themselves together despite what had afflicted them. Ibnul-Athir said, “So al-Qa’qa’ went among the fighters and said, ‘Indeed, today, defeat will be for the one who initiates the combat, so be patient for an hour and then attack, for indeed victory comes through patience.” It wasn’t but a few hours after this that Allah  sent down His victory and defeated His enemy after the Muslims had sacrificed what they’d sacrificed and remained patient in the face of the army of an empire that surpassed them many times in numbers and equipment. Ibnul-Athir said, “Prior to the Night of Harir, 2500 Muslims were killed, and on the Night of Harir and the Day of Qadisiyyah, 6000 were killed.” Then the commander of the Persians, Rustum, was killed, and the Muslims pursued the Majus, killing them and taking ghanimah. That battle was the Muslims’ door to the rest of the cities of Iraq, and even to Madain, the capital of the Majusi Persians. If we were to examine the victories of the Muslims against the multitudes of disbelievers when they fulfilled the condition of steadfastness and patience, it would take long to mention, but it’s enough for us to recall ‘Ayn Jalut (658AH), the day the Tatar wanted to enter Egypt after having brought all the lands under their authority. The Muslims remained steadfast and patient, so Allah  supported them and destroyed their enemy. They then proceeded forth to drive the Tatar out of the cities of Sham, and Allah gave them power over them. ‘Ayn Jalut had many sisters whose stories and participants history has recorded and conveyed to later generations. Today, the enemies of Allah return with what they’ve gathered of equipment and men to wage war against the Islamic State and extinguish its light, but how can they possibly achieve that? And so, O soldiers of the Khilafah in Mosul, Halab, Sirte, and other wilayat of the Islamic State, you must be patient, and you must surpass the enemy in patience. Indeed, victory requires but an hour of patience.