Allah’s Messenger  said, “The best of my ummah is the generation in which I was sent, and then those who come after them” (Reported by al-Bukhari and Muslim from Abu Hurayrah). An-Nawawi said, “The scholars have agreed that the best of generations is his  generation, meaning his companions… and what the majority of scholars are upon is that every Muslim who saw the Prophet  – even if only for an hour – is from among his companions.” What was a common practice by the women of that generation from among the Sahabiyyat is that they would remarry after their husbands died or were killed, with the exception of the Mothers of the Believers , who were forbidden for any man after the Prophet . And if we were to examine the books of biographies and histories we would rarely find a woman from among those believing, noble, pious women who did not remarry after the passing of her husband, regardless of whether or not she had children. Likewise, we have never read that any of the men or women around her criticized her for remarrying or accused her of not being loyal to her first husband! And whoever defames a woman that has married another man after her husband died or was killed should beware of opposing something which Allah  has legislated and permitted for His slaves. Thus, if there is a woman whose husband passes away and she remarries, and then he passes away and she remarries, and then he passes away and she remarries – and so on as much as Allah wills, even if a hundred times – and then someone comes and censures and forbids her without a shar’i justification, but rather on the basis that this is “shameful,” thereby placing a false understanding of “shame” that is rampant among many people – except for those whom our Lord has protected – over and above the halal that Allah has permitted or the haram that He has forbidden – then such a censorious individual should fear for his worrisome condition. In “Al-Mahbar” by Abu Ja’far al-Baghdadi, there is a section he titled, “The Names of Women Who Married Three Times or More,” and among them he mentions a collection of the best of the Sahabiyyat. Furthermore, the Sahabah  would race to propose to a Muslim woman whose husband had passed away and to care for an orphan whose father had passed away. Accordingly, were the Sahabah ignorant of the wisdom supposedly grasped by those women today who oppose the marriage of widows? Where is the belief of such women in that the Sahabah were the greatest of people after the prophets? Furthermore, from among the daughters and granddaughters of our prophet  were those who married once, twice, and thrice. Ibn Kathir  said, “Zaynab was married by Abul-‘As Ibn ar-Rabi’ Ibn ‘Abdil-‘Uzza Ibn ‘Abdi Shams Ibn ‘Abdi Manaf, the son of Khadijah’s sister – his mother was Halah Bint Khuwaylid – and she bore him a son named ‘Ali and a daughter named Umamah Bint Zaynab who was married to ‘Ali Ibn Abi Talib… ‘Ali died when she was with him. Then after him, she married al-Mughirah Ibn Nawfal Ibn al-Harith Ibn ‘Abdil-Muttalib” (al-Bidayah wan-Nihayah). He also said, “As for Umm Kulthum, Amirul-Muminin ‘Umar Ibn al-Khattab married her and she bore him Zayd. ‘Umar died and she married after him the sons of her uncle, Ja’far, one after another; she married ‘Awn Ibn Ja’far and he died, then his brother Muhammad married her and then died, then their brother ‘Abdullah Ibn Ja’far married her and she died while she was with him” (al-Bidayah wan-Nihayah). Yes, Umm Kulthum married four men, and she is who she is: the granddaughter of the Prophet  and the daughter of ‘Ali and Fatimah , and not a single eyelid was batted at her, not a single tongue criticized her, and she did not hear a single wretched statement to the effect of, “Woe to you, how could you forget your first husband and what was between you of companionship and love?” Likewise, there is a good example for the believing women in the Sahabiyyah Asma Bint ‘Umays, the performer of two hijrahs – may Allah be pleased with her and her husbands. It is mentioned in “Ma’rifat as-Sahabah” by Abu Nu’aym that “she performed hijrah with her husband Ja’far Ibn Abi Talib. In the land of al-Habashah, she bore him ‘Abdullah, ‘Awn, and Muhammad… Then Ja’far was killed, so Abu Bakr as-Siddiq  married her and she bore him Muhammad Ibn Abi Bak as-Siddiq in the year of the Farewell Hajj at ash-Shajarah. Then Abu Bakr passed away, so ‘Ali Ibn Abi Talib  married her and she bore him Yahya Ibn ‘Ali Ibn Abi Talib.” Likewise, “Khawlah Bint Qays Ibn Qahd Ibn Tha’labah al-Ansariyyah, Umm Muhammad – and it was said, Umm Habibah. Her husband Hamzah Ibn ‘Abdil-Muttalib was killed, so an-Nu’man Ibn ‘Ajlan al-Ansari married her.” And in “Usud al-Ghabah” by Ibnul-Athir, he says, “‘Atikah Bint Zayd was married by ‘Abdullah Ibn Abi Bakr. Then when he was killed, al-Faruq ‘Umar married her. Then when he was killed, az-Zubayr Ibn al-‘Awwam married her.” And you should ponder, O Muslimah, how a woman can remarry after the likes of Abu Bakr as-Siddiq, ‘Umar Ibn al-Khattab, ‘Ali Ibn Abi Talib, and Hamzah Ibn ‘Abdil-Muttalib! These are just a few of the many examples from the history of the women belonging to the best generation. And if we were to try to count the number of women who remarried after their first husbands, we would not be able to do so. Those widows who oppose remarrying – may Allah guide them to that in which there is good for them in the Dunya and the Akhirah – have some doubts. Among them is that any woman who is patient in raising her orphans will race the Prophet  to the door of Jannah. Their alleged proof for this is the hadith attributed to the Prophet : “Allah has forbidden for any son of Adam to enter Jannah before me, except that I will look to my right and there will be a woman racing me to the door of Jannah, so I will say, ‘Why is this woman racing me?’ I will be told, ‘O Muhammad, this is a woman who was fair and beautiful with orphans. She was patient with them until they became adults, thus, Allah rewarded her for that” (Reported by Abu Ya’la and al-Kharaiti from Abu Hurayrah, and the wording is from al-Kharaiti). However, this hadith is not authentically attributable to the Prophet . Al-Busiri said in “Al-Ithaf,” “It was reported by Abu Ya’la with an isnad that is weak due to the weakness of ‘Abdus-Salam Ibn ‘Ajlan.” So would an intelligent woman leave abundant and profuse authentic ahadith that encourage marriage only to follow a weak hadith?! Furthermore, who said that the mother of orphans would not be rewarded for raising her children if she were to remarry after their father? Rather, her reward is established and enduring, by Allah’s permission. And perhaps her marriage to a pious man would make her reward with her Lord even greater, as this husband would be good for her and her children, keep her chaste, look after her, and raise her children to obey Allah. And if her first husband were to see what his children were upon of uprightness and success, he would thank her profusely. A woman might say, “I will not remarry so that I will be with my first husband in the Jannah,” and there’s nothing wrong with that, but such a sister must know that the question of which husband a woman will be with in Jannah is a disputed issue. There are those who say that she will be with the last of them, there are those who say that she will be with the best of them in character towards her, there are those who say that she will be with the one who took her virginity, there are those who say that she will be given the choice between them, and there are those who’ve stated other opinions. So the Muslimah – may Allah guide her – should examine this dispute and then look and see if she has a text from the Book of Allah or the Sunnah of Allah’s Messenger  stating that her first husband is certainly in Jannah, or if this is just good assumptions and hope? And she should look at her condition today – a young woman at the peak of her youth, with an orphan or two or three or more, and the land is a land of jihad with constant advances and withdrawals – as she rejects the one proposing to her from among pious men, and Allah  knows best as to whether one’s life will be long or short! A woman is always in need of a husband who will look after her and tend to her affairs, and any woman who says otherwise is opposing the fitrah upon which Allah  created her. No one around her can fill the place of a husband, neither her father, nor her brother, nor the closest of her relatives! Furthermore, widows have before them a door to fitnah that is necessary – for the one who fears Allah concerning herself and those around her – to endeavor to shut. So the woman who rejects proposals and seeks her needs and the needs of her children from her friends’ husbands or from her in-laws, who are her children’s uncles, should fear the slippery slopes of Shaytan and keep herself far away from any shubuhat (questionable matters). And one who avoids shubuhat has protected her religion and honor from being tainted, and there is none more relentless than the Shaytan in pursuing an unmarried woman that has experienced marriage. As for the widow whose excuse is that she made her husband a promise to not remarry after him, she should know that the imams of the Salaf disliked such, and some of them held that such a promise was invalid. “A woman came to ash-Sha’bi and said, ‘I swore a strong oath to my husband that I would not remarry after him, so what is your opinion?’ He said, ‘My opinion is that we should begin with Allah’s halal before your haram’” (Reported by Sa’id Ibn Mansur in his sunan). And a woman is more aware of her situation than a husband who has parted and ascended to his Lord. Discussing the ruling of the permissibility of a woman marrying after the death or martyrdom of her first husband resembles – to a certain extent – the discussion of the permissibility of a man marrying more than one woman while they’re still alive. Why do people stare and turn red when it is all Allah’s law?! Allah  said, “But those who disbelieve – for them is misery, and He will make their deeds stray. That is because they disliked what Allah revealed, so He rendered their deeds worthless” (Muhammad 8-9). In conclusion, know, O my sister, wife of a shahid – as we consider him to be, and Allah is his judge – that Jannah is that lofty and precious place where there is no discomfort, hardship, sadness, or distress, and wherein the believer is pleased with what his Lord has given him, regardless of whether or not he is with his loved ones from among the people of the Dunya. And indeed this husband, on whose account you restrict yourself from getting married despite your need to do so with the hope that he will be your husband in the Akhirah – if you were in need of a single good deed on the Day of Judgment in order to enter Jannah and you came to him hoping he would offer one of his good deeds to you, he would not give it to you. “That day, a man will flee from his brother, his mother, his father, his wife, and his children. Every man, that day, will have an affair that preoccupies him” (‘Abas 34-37). On that day, it will only be, “Myself! Myself!” This will even be the case with the prophets and messengers, except for our prophet . Furthermore, you do not know with certainty whether or not his shahadah has been accepted, for indeed what the heart contains of intentions cannot be seen by anyone but He who knows the unseen. And there is no doubt that the things you hope for, including attaining Allah’s pleasure and His closeness, hearing His speech and speaking to Him, as well as meeting and seeing Him, are greater than all other blessings of the Akhirah. It was reported in an athar, “Indeed, when the people of Jannah attain complete bliss and think that there is no bliss that is greater, the Lord will reveal Himself to them. They will look at the face of ar-Rahman, and they will forget every other bliss they’ve seen as they look at the face of ar-Rahman” (Reported by ad-Darimi in his refutation of al-Marisi). So will you not consider a husband who will aid you in attaining this great bliss by protecting you from what the Lord of creation has forbidden?!