Indeed, Allah  has divided the word of the Syrian Sahwat, scattered their hearts in disunity, ignited discord among them, and made their hostility against each other, until they began striking one another’s necks. That was after they turned away from what was obligated upon them by Allah’s saying, “Hold firmly to the rope of Allah all together and do not become divided” (Al ‘Imran 103), including the tawhid of Allah in His rule and uniting under a single imam who establishes the Shari’ah through them and wages war against the kafir parties resisting the Shari’ah. When some of the Syrian Sahwat realized that their situation would end up like that of the Iraqi Sahwat, ending up being struck with humiliation and misery, they spread the news of their endeavor to form a jahili, superficial union, in which they will curse one another for the sake of their personal and factional interests. It is as Allah  said, “You consider them united, but their hearts are divided. That is because they are a people who do not comprehend” (Al-Hashr 14). This division is the reaping of what they sowed, as Allah  said, “From those who say, ‘We are Christians,’ We took their covenant; but they forgot a portion of what they were reminded. So We caused among them animosity and hatred until the Day of Resurrection. And Allah is going to inform them about what they used to do” (Al-Maidah 14). Allah  also said, “The Jews say, ‘The hand of Allah is chained.’ Chained are their hands, and cursed are they for what they say. Rather, both His hands are extended; He spends however He wills. And that which has been revealed to you from your Lord will surely increase many of them in transgression and disbelief. And We have cast among them animosity and hatred until the Day of Resurrection. Every time they kindled the fire of war [against you], Allah extinguished it. And they strive to spread corruption throughout the land, and Allah does not like the corrupters” (Al-Maidah 64). Thus, regardless of how much they endeavor to unite, and no matter how many new formations they proclaim, their mirage-unity will vanish. “The example of those who take allies other than Allah is like that of the spider who takes a home. And indeed, the weakest of homes is the home of the spider, if they only knew” (Al-‘Ankabut 41). Their alliances with one another for the sake of other than Allah, and their holding tightly to other than His rope, as well as their fighting for other than His cause, all make them too frail to preserve a single banner to rally under or to secure a state for themselves, especially after they claimed Islam and then apostatized therefrom by having wala to the Crusaders and the murtaddin in the fight against those who established Allah’s law on the earth. Have the leaders of the apostate Sahwat not realized and learned that the unity to which they have been called is unity by the religion of Islam and the Muslim Jama’ah, not by the methodologies of nationalism and partisanship? However, they know nothing but desire and taqlid. So if any of the “scholars” of the tawaghit and the “theorists” of the Sahwat achieve their desires, they blindly follow them, and they throw the words of those who do not achieve their desires against the wall. As for following what Allah has revealed, as He ordered in His statement, “Follow what has been revealed to you from your Lord and do not follow other than Him any allies. Little do you remember” (Al-A’raf 3), and, “Whoever opposes the Messenger after guidance has become clear to him and follows other than the way of the believers – We shall leave him in the path he has chosen and drive him into Hell, and evil it is as a destination” (An-Nisa 115), then that is something undesirable to them. Muhammad Ibn ‘Abdil-Wahhab  described some of their condition, saying, “They are divided in their religion, just as Allah  said, ‘Each faction rejoices in what it has’ (Al-Muminun 53), and the same goes for their worldly affairs, and they consider that condition to be correct… Also, opposing the Muslim ruler and not complying with his order is considered a virtue by them, just as they consider hearing and obeying him to be humiliation and degradation… Also, their religion is built upon some fundamentals. The most significant of them is taqlid, which is the greatest principle for all of the kuffar – the first of them and the last of them, as Allah  said, ‘Similarly, We did not send before you any warner into a city except that its affluent said, ‘Indeed, we found our fathers upon a religion, and we are only following in their footsteps’’ (Az-Zukhruf 23)” (Masail al-Jahiliyyah). He also said, “Allah commanded unity in the religion and forbade being divided therein. He explained this in a conclusive way, which even the common people can understand… However, being divided in the fundamentals and branches of the religion thereafter became ‘knowledge’ and ‘fiqh’ of the religion, whereas unity in the religion became professed only by a ‘zindiq’ or a ‘madman’… And part of complete unity is hearing and obeying the one appointed over us, even if he were an Abyssinian slave. Allah explained this in a conclusive way and in several manners… Yet this principle became unknown to most of those who claim knowledge. How then can they act upon it?!” (Al-Usul as-Sittah). Indeed, their uniting for the sake of factional and national partisanship in addition to their remaining upon their shirk and riddah will never increase them in might or power. Instead, it will only increase them in frailty, as a result of the odd mixture of greatly varying creeds and methodologies. This will but increase the disputes within their ranks, as well as their endeavor to betray each other. And Allah does not guide a wrongdoing people. Thus, whoever wants to hold tightly to the strong rope of Allah, he must repent to Allah and adhere to the religion of Islam and the Muslim Jama’ah until he dies. Otherwise, he will be among the stones in Jahannam and piles of men therein. Furthermore, it was reported that Allah’s Messenger  said, “Whoever clings to something is left to it” (Reported by an-Nasai from Abu Hurayrah). Sulayman Al ash-Shaykh  said, “Whoever’s heart clings to something, in that it relies on it and is hopeful of it, Allah leaves him to that thing. So if the slave clings to his Lord, his God, his Master, his Patron, the Lord and Owner of everything, then he is left to Him, so He will suffice him, protect him, safeguard him, and be his ally – and what a good ally and supporter He is! This is just as He  said, ‘Is not Allah sufficient for His slave?’ (Az-Zumar 36). And whoever clings to sorcery and devils, then Allah will leave him to them, and they will destroy him in the Dunya and in the Akhirah. In general, whoever relies on other than Allah, whatever it may be, is left to it and he will see evil in the Dunya and the Akhrirah coming at him from its direction, contrary to his expectance. This is the irreplaceable sunnah and unchangeable work of Allah regarding His slaves, that whoever seeks comfort in other than Him, puts his trust in other than Him, or depends on something created to manage his affairs, then Allah will cause that thing to do the opposite of what he hoped from it. This is known through revelation and experience, and whoever reflects deeply over this and the conditions of the creation will see it clearly” (Taysir al-‘Aziz al-Hamid). He also said, “The act of ‘clinging’ can be of the heart, through action, or both. That is, one who clings to something with his heart, or clings to something with his heart and action, then he is left to it, meaning Allah leaves him to that thing to which he clung. So whoever attaches himself to Allah, seeks Allah’s aid for his need, takes refuge with Him, and entrusts all of his affairs to Him, then He suffices for him every need, brings close to him what is distant, and makes easy for him what is difficult. And whoever clings to other than Him or relies on his knowledge, his intellect, medicine, or amulets, and depends on his might and power, then Allah leaves him to that and abandons him. This is known through the texts and through experience. Allah  said, ‘Whoever relies upon Allah, then He is sufficient for him’ (At-Talaq 3)… Wahb Ibn Munabbih said, ‘Allah  inspired to Dawud, ‘O Dawud, by My might and My greatness, none of My slaves adheres to Me instead of My creation – which I know from his intention – and then the seven heavens and all those therein, and the seven earths and all those therein plot against him, except that I would make a way out for him. By My might and My greatness, none of My slaves adheres to My creation instead of Me – which I know from his intention – except that I will sever the heavens from him and cause the earth to sink beneath his feet, and I care not where he perishes thereafter’’” (Taysir al-‘Aziz al-Hamid). Has not the time come now for the Sahwat of apostasy – with all of their sects and parties – to consider what has happened to them? Do they not see that their reliance on the tawaghit and their wala to the cross-worshipers – including their saying to them, “We will obey you in some of this matter” (Muhammad 26) – has done nothing but led to the Just Judge  abandoning them to their brutal enemy, until the Nusayri army and its Rafidi and Crusader allies entered their lands, spilled their blood, and plundered their wealth in the eastern and old neighborhoods of Halab? They did so in a matter of a few hours, without the usage of smart bombs or Predator drones, let alone an international coalition having no parallel in modern history! Will they not then contemplate? The taghut of the Murtadd Brotherhood, Erdogan, did not offer anything to his Sahwah slaves, aside from meetings with the vicious Russian Crusaders and congratulations to the American Crusaders on the occasion of their latest presidential elections, as well as continued campaigns against the muhajirin and ansar who were the bulwark against the Nusayriyyah from entering the city of Halab and its countryside areas before the apostate Sahwat betrayed them. Yes, indeed, whoever clings to something is left to it. So whoever clings to a taghut that worships its own desires will be left to it. The taghut will utilize him to achieve the taghut’s own personal and partisan benefits, and then the taghut will throw him into the trash bin of history along with other evil traitors. How then if  the one relying on taghut fights under a jahili banner and for the taghut’s cause, seeking to make the taghut’s word supreme, in the blessed land of Sham? If their taghut Erdogan feared for their families, he would have dispatched his despicable kafir troops to fight and kill the Nusayriyyah and the Baathists, just as he would have given the Sahwat whatever he could from the arsenal of the apostate Turkish army, so as to bring down the antique Russian and Syrian jets. But why would he ever do that? Halab is not a part of his murtadd state and his Crusader brethren would never allow it to be. Thus, he has no need for Halab, except to exterminate the apostate PKK and to prevent them from shaking his transient throne. Still, the mujahid muwahhidin continue to hope that those who claim to be “Muslims” and “Ahlus-Sunnah” – from the Sahwat in Halab, Idlib, and elsewhere – who apostatized through nationalism, secularism, forceful resistance of the Shari’ah, or wala to other murtaddin, will repent to Allah , disbelieve in other than Him, have wala only for His sake, show enmity only for His sake, fight for His cause alone, and openly proclaim the religion of Ibrahim and Muhammad  to the world without shame, as they put their trust in Allah and reject any conditional support and taghut kafir. And whoever has killed a million muhajirin and ansar and wishes to repent has a guarantee of sanctuary if he conveys his repentance, just as Amirul-Muminin  has said. Indeed, the land of the Shari’ah is better for him than a terrain ruled by manmade laws and customs. “And whoever relies upon Allah, then He is sufficient for him” (At-Talaq 3). And all praise belongs to Allah, the Lord of creation.