As the soldiers of the Khilafah continue waging war on the forces of kufr, we take a glimpse at a number of recent operations conducted by the mujahidin of the Islamic State that have succeeded – by Allah’s blessing – in expanding the territory of the Khilafah, or terrorizing, massacring, and humiliating the enemies of Allah. These are merely a selection of the numerous operations that the Islamic State has conducted on various fronts across many regions over the course of the last few weeks. The War on Turkey On the 7th of Rabi’ al-Awwal, Abu Anas al-Manbiji and Abu ‘Umar al-Hashimi  set out and detonated their explosive vehicles on two groups of Turkish soldiers and Sahwah fighters near the villages of Waqah and Kufayr west of the city of Bab. The operations resulted in one Turkish tank being destroyed and three others being disabled, in addition to a number of murtaddin being killed and wounded. This was followed by the soldiers of the Khilafah carrying out an assault on the village of Kufayr. They succeeded in killing three murtaddin and destroying two of their vehicles, in addition to taking a third vehicle as ghanimah before returning safely back to their positions. On the 9th of Rabi’ al-Awwal, an istishhadi operation struck a group of Turkish soldiers and Sahwah fighters near the village of Baratah west of the city of Bab. Likewise, the mujahidin disabled a Turkish tank near the village of Dana using an explosive device, and also destroyed a 4-wheel drive vehicle with a mortar round. On the 11th of Rabi’ al-Awwal, two istishhadi operations were carried out targeting the murtadd Sahwat and the murtadd Turkish army. The first was carried out by Abu ‘Abdir-Rahman ash-Shami , who detonated his explosive vehicle on a group of them in the village of Azraq west of the city of Bab, killing more than 14 murtaddin and injuring a number of others, in addition to destroying three of their vehicles. The second was carried out by Abu Ahmad as-Samrawi , who detonated his explosive vehicle on a group of them in the village of Zarzur east of the city. He succeeded in killing and injuring several murtaddin, in addition to disabling a number of their vehicles. A Turkish tank was also destroyed in the same village after being targeted with a guided missile. On the 12th of Rabi’ al-Awwal, the soldiers of the Khilafah destroyed two Turkish tanks and disabled a third using two guided missiles and a mortar round. On the 15th of Rabi’ al-Awwal, Islamic State tank hunters destroyed one Turkish tank and disabled another after targeting them with guided missiles west of the city of Bab. On the 16th of Rabi’ al-Awwal, during the course of confrontations with the murtadd Turkish army and Sahwat, the mujahidin stormed the village of ‘Ajami northeast of the city of Bab. An istishhadi soldier of the Khilafah  then detonated his explosive vehicle on a group of murtaddin near the village of Qunayfidh. On the 21st of Rabi’ al-Awwal, the mujahidin destroyed a tank and a BMP belonging to the murtadd Turkish army after targeting them with two guided missiles west of the city of Bab. On the 23rd of Rabi’ al-Awwal, Islamic State tank hunters – using two guided missiles – destroyed two Turkish armored vehicles west of the city of Bab. On the same day, the Halab Wilayah media office released a video titled, “The Shield of the Cross,” which featured the burning of two members of the murtadd Turkish forces, which are leading a campaign called “The Euphrates Shield,” on behalf of their Crusader masters, against the Muslims in Halab Wilayah. The video also featured a message from the soldiers of the Khilafah declaring that the murtadd Turkish government will get used to seeing scenes of its soldiers being burned alive if it insists on bombing the lands of the Islamic State. On the 2nd of Rabi’ al-Akhir, one of the soldiers of the Khilafah struck a famous nightclub in Istanbul while the Christians were celebrating their pagan holidays inside. He attacked the pagans with hand grenades as well as his assault rifle, and succeeded in killing and injuring 150 of them, doing so in revenge for Allah’s religion and in response to the order from Amirul-Muminin to target Turkey, the servant of the Cross. Baghdad Wilayah On the 7th of Rabi’ al-Awwal, an Islamic State covert unit detonated a car bomb on the dens and gatherings of the Rafidi murtaddin in the area of Sadr towards the east of Baghdad. The operation resulted in 60 murtaddin being killed and another 20 being wounded. On the 11th of Rabi’ al-Awwal, an Islamic State covert unit parked and detonated a car bomb on a gathering of Rafidi murtaddin in the area of Bawiyah towards the east of Baghdad, killing and injuring at least 80 of them. Another covert unit planted and detonated two explosive devices on a gathering of Rafidah in the area of Abu Dushayr towards the south of Baghdad, killing and injuring approximately 20 of them. On the 1st of Rabi’ al-Akhir, Abu Nawwaf al-‘Iraqi and Abu ‘Abdil-Malik al-‘Iraqi  set out and targeted a group of Rafidi murtaddin and their dens in the area of Sanak and in the middle of Baghdad. They detonated their explosive vests on them, one after the other, killing and injuring more than 100 murtaddin and destroying several of their dens. Meanwhile, Islamic State explosives units parked and detonated a car bomb on another group of Rafidi murtaddin near the New Baghdad traffic authority towards the east of the city, killing 9 of them and injuring 17 others. Ninawa Wilayah On the 6th of Rabi’ al-Awwal, Abu Khattab al-‘Iraqi  set out and detonated his explosive vehicle on a group of Rafidi soldiers and militia fighters in the neighborhood of Barid in the northeastern part of Mosul. He succeeded in destroying an Abrams tank and two bulldozers, in addition to killing 8 murtaddin and injuring a number of others. Another four istishhadi soldiers of the Khilafah – Abu Khattab al-Mawsili, Abu Ahmad ash-Shami, Abu Salamah ash-Shami, and Battar al- Mawsili  – set out and detonated their explosive vehicles on the murtaddin near the Salam Hospital in the southeastern part of Mosul. They succeeded in killing approximately 35 of them, in addition to destroying 5 BMPs, a bulldozer, and a Humvee, and also destroyed and disabled a number of other vehicles of varying types. This was followed by clashes in which four murtaddin were killed – one of them by a sniper – and a number of others were wounded, with the mujahidin also disabling two Humvees and a BMP, and taking a second BMP as ghanimah. On the 7th of Rabi’ al-Awwal, Abu Hamzah al-‘Iraqi  set out and detonated his explosive vehicle on a group of Rafidi soldiers and militia fighters near the Salam Hospital in the southeastern part of Mosul. He succeeded in destroying several vehicles and in killing and injuring a number of murtaddin. Another 20 murtaddin were killed and 45 others were wounded in clashes with the besieged Rafidi divisions. The clashes also led to 8 BMPs, 5 Humvees, and an Abrams tank being destroyed. The soldiers of the Khilafah also clashed with a convoy near the crossroad for the neighborhood of Sawmar, which was attempting to advance in order to support the besieged murtaddin, leading to approximately 10 of its personnel being killed and a number of others being wounded. Sometime later, Abu Islam ash-Shami  set out and detonated his explosive vehicle on a Rafidi army and Rafidi militia convoy in the neighborhood of Wahdah in the southeastern part of Mosul. He succeeded in destroying three Humvees, in addition to killing 8 murtaddin and injuring a number of others. This was followed by clashes that led to three BMPs being burned. Clashes also took place on the eastern axis, leading to 21 murtaddin being killed, in addition to one Humvee being destroyed and another being disabled. Another 21 Rafidi soldiers and militia fighters were killed by snipers in the neighborhood of Ikha, and on the edges of the neighborhoods of Shayma, Intisar, and Nur. Hims Wilayah On the 8th of Rabi’ al-Awwal, the soldiers of the Khilafah captured 8 checkpoints in the areas of Sha’ir and Huwaysis following fierce clashes with the Nusayri army and its militias that led to more than 50 murtaddin being killed. The mujahidin also took three tanks, an autocannon, a Konkurs missile launcher and some missiles, and a variety of weapons and ammo as ghanimah. On the 9th of Rabi’ al-Awwal, the soldiers of the Khilafah continued their blessed assault on the Nusayri army and its militias in the vicinity of the city of Tadmur and succeeded in taking control of a number of important facilities and positions. They captured the Mahr Gas Company northeast of the T4 military airbase west of the city of Tadmur after first capturing the communications tower hill, the Mahr hill, and the Irtiwazah checkpoint in the vicinity of the gas company. The Nusayri army dispatched a military convoy from the city of Tadmur in an attempt to recapture the hills surrounding the gas company, but the soldiers of the Khilafah confronted the convoy, with a number of inghimasiyyin attacking it from several directions. Several murtaddin were killed and the remainder fled, with the mujahidin pursuing them and managing to kill them all. The soldiers of the Khilafah also continued their advance south towards the area of Jihar and took control of 15 checkpoints in the area stretching between Mahr and Jihar, and at the Jihar gas field, in addition to the surrounding hills. In the area of Jazal northeast of Jihar, meanwhile, the soldiers of the Khilafah captured 5 Nusayri checkpoints and succeeded in taking complete control of the Jazal oilfield and the surrounding area. The confrontations resulted in approximately 112 Nusayri soldiers being killed, with the mujahidin also taking three tanks, a multiple rocket launcher, a field artillery gun, a heavy machine gun, and a supply of ammo as ghanimah. On the 10th of Rabi’ al-Awwal, the soldiers of the Khilafah launched a wide scale attack from several axes on Nusayri positions on the outskirts of the city of Tadmur, and succeeded in taking control of a number of locations. On the city’s northern axis, the mujahidin took complete control of the area of Huwaysis and the artillery hill and the Burj hill, as well as Mount Tar and Mount ‘Antarah, both of which are strategic locations, and the Tadmur military depots. As for the area south of Tadmur, the mujahidin took control of Qasr al-Hallabat, and the strategic Mount Hayyan. Meanwhile, west of the city, the mujahidin captured the Mahr Gas Company, as well as the Mahr hill and Burj hill in its vicinity. They also took control of the abandoned battalion base, the Jazal oilfield, and the Jihar gas field. On the city’s eastern axis, the soldiers of the Khilafah captured the city’s grain silos, as well as 8 checkpoints in the surrounding area, and the Talilah reserve. The confrontations were punctuated by two istishhadi operations and several inghimasi operations, and the blessed attack resulted in more than 260 murtaddin being killed and several others being taken prisoner, including an officer ranked major. The attack also resulted in a warplane being shot down near the area of Jazal, with the mujahidin also taking 14 tanks, a BMP, 16 artillery cannons of varying calibers, a multiple rocket launcher, and two guided missile launchers with a number of missiles as ghanimah, in addition to a supply of weapons and ammo. On the 11th of Rabi’ al-Awwal, following several days of fierce confrontations with the Nusayri army and its Rafidi militias on all four sides surrounding the city of Tadmur, the soldiers of the Khilafah succeeded in taking complete control of the city, thereby bringing it back under the authority of the Shari’ah. This came following a breakdown in the murtaddin’s defenses inside the city after the mujahidin captured the citadel overlooking the entire city, the ‘Amiriyyah hill, and the neighborhood of ‘Amiriyyah to its north, in addition to capturing the city’s eastern entrance and threatening the one remaining supply route for Nusayri forces besieged between Mount Hayyan and Mount Tar northwest and southwest of the city. After taking control of the city of Tadmur, the soldiers of the Khilafah continued their advance west of the city and took control of the areas of Bayarat, Dawwah, and Muthallath Tadmur. Meanwhile, northwest of Tadmur, Islamic State forces took control of the Hayyan gas company and connected with the forces advancing from the area of the Dawwah orchards west of Tadmur. The battles resulted in approximately 100 Nusayri soldiers and Rafidi militia fighters being killed, and the mujahidin took 30 tanks, 6 BMPs, 6 122mm artillery field guns, 7 23mm autocannons, and a supply of antitank missiles and launchers, Grad rockets, and tank shells, as well as a variety of ammo as ghanimah. On the 12th of Rabi’ al-Awwal, the soldiers of the Khilafah continued their advance in the eastern countryside of Hims and succeeded in taking control of territory stretching 40 km west of Tadmur. They also reached the thresholds of the T4 military airbase, the largest of the Nusayri army’s military airbases. This came when the mujahidin advanced on the international road between Tadmur and Hims and took control of the Jihar junction east of the T4 airbase, and also attacked Nusayri positions along the mountain range north of the airbase and succeeded in capturing 12 positions leading towards the air defense battalion base. This placed them in a position overlooking the battalion base. The soldiers of the Khilafah likewise attacked and took control of another air defense battalion base located southwest of the airbase, and also took control of the nearby village of Marhatan. They also launched an attack on the positions and hills in which the Nusayri army was entrenched near the area of Baridah south of the T4 airbase and took control of the Syriatel tower, and the areas of Qasr al-Hayr and Mishtal. They thereby tightened the chokehold on the airbase after advancing north, west, and south, and reaching as far as being 2 to 5 km away from the airbase. They also destroyed a T55 tank and a 122mm artillery field gun in the vicinity of the airbase. The mujahidin then began a campaign of heavy bombardment against the airbase, leading to three warplanes being destroyed. On the 14th of Rabi’ al-Awwal, the soldiers of the Khilafah made another successful advance in the vicinity of the T4 military airbase and took control of the village of Sharifah west of the airbase, as well as a Nusayri army and Rafidi militia checkpoint east of the village. As a result, the one remaining supply route to the airbase became threatened after being surrounded from the north with the capture of the abandoned battalion base, and from the east and the south with the capture of the air defense battalion base and several other positions ‘Adan Abyan Wilayah On the 10th of Rabi’ al-Awwal, Abu Sa’d al-‘Adani  set out towards a group of Yemeni soldiers in front of the Sawlaban military base in the area of Khawr Maksar towards the east of the city of ‘Adan. He entered into their midst and detonated his explosive vest, killing and injuring 80 murtaddin. On the 18th of Rabi’ al-Awwal, Abu Hashim ar-Radfani  succeeded in passing through the murtaddin’s security checkpoints and detonating his explosive vest on a group of Yemeni intelligence personnel behind the Sawlaban military base towards the northeast of ‘Adan, where they had gathered to receive their salaries. He succeeded in killing approximately 70 of them and in injuring dozens more. Egypt On the 11th of Rabi’ al-Awwal, Abu ‘Abdillah al Misri  carried out an istishhadi operation targeting a church next to the cathedral in the neighborhood of ‘Abbasiyyah in the middle of Cairo. He entered into the midst of the Crusaders and detonated his explosive belt, killing and injuring approximately 80 of them. Dimashq Wilayah On the 17th of Rabi’ al-Awwal, Abu Sadiq ash-Shami  succeeded in reaching a gathering of the so-called “New Syrian Army” near the Rukban refugee camp on the artificial border with Jordan two days ago. He detonated his explosive motorbike in their midst, killing and injuring dozens of them and destroying a weapons depot as well as four 4-wheel drive vehicles. Qawqaz Wilayah On the 18th of Rabi’ al-Awwal, a number of Islamic State soldiers carried out an inghimasi operation that lasted for two consecutive days and targeted security personnel in the city of Grozny in the middle of Chechnya. Clashes took place in the middle of the city, leading to a number of murtaddin being killed and wounded. Jordan On the 18th of Rabi’ al-Awwal, an attack was carried out in the city of Karak by four soldiers of the Khilafah: Muhammad Salih al-Khatib, Muhammad Yusuf al Qarawinah, Hazim Muhammad Abu Rumman, and ‘Asim Muhammad Abu Rumman . They set out armed with assault rifles and hand grenades, and attacked a group of personnel belonging to the murtadd Jordanian security forces as well as several citizens of nations involved in the Crusader coalition. The attack began with the four mujahidin clashing with a security patrol unit and eliminating its personnel. They then attacked a security headquarters in the city and succeeded in killing a number of murtaddin inside, following which they entrenched themselves inside the Karak Castle where there were a number of Crusader citizens present. Fierce confrontations took place and lasted for several hours, during the course of which the four mujahidin attained shahadah after giving the murtaddin and Crusader citizens a taste of bitter death. The blessed operation resulted in approximately 10 murtaddin being killed, including Lieutenant Colonel Said al-Mu’ayitah, the commander of the special task force unit, and a Crusader woman, who was a citizen of one of the nations involved in the Crusader coalition. This is in addition to 35 other murtaddin and Crusaders being wounded. Europe On the 19th of Rabi’ al-Awwal, one of the soldiers of the Khilafah – Abul-Bara at-Tunisi  – carried out an operation in which he ran over several people in the heart of the German capital, Berlin, in response to the Islamic State’s call to target the citizens of nations involved in the Crusader coalition, which is killing Muslims. He targeted a Christmas market with his truck and succeeded in killing 12 people and in injuring 48 others. Following his successful operation in Germany, the gallant knight continued his march until he reached the outskirts of the city of Milano in Italy on the 23rd of Rabi’ al-Awwal and attacked an Italian police unit, leading to him attaining shahadah – we consider him so, and Allah is his judge – following an exchange of gunfire with the Crusaders. South Baghdad Wilayah On the 2nd of Rabi’ al-Akhir, five soldiers of the Khilafah – Abu Qaswarah al-‘Iraqi, Abul-Hasan al-‘Iraqi, Abu Mus’ab ash-Shami, Muhammad al-‘Iraqi, and Abu Sayyaf ash-Shami  – set out towards the checkpoints and gatherings of the Rafidi murtaddin in the area of Mishkhab towards the south of Najaf. Four of the inghimasiyyin succeeded in killing dozens of murtaddin and in detonating their explosive vests on the Rafidah. The fifth soldier of the Khilafah, meanwhile, detonated his explosive vehicle on another group of Rafidah between Mishkhab and Qadisiyyah, and the blessed operation resulted in approximately 100 of them being killed and wounded.