The heroic sacrifices of the brothers Abul-Bara at-Tunisi (Anis al-‘Amri) , who flattened the cross worshipers in the Christmas market of Berlin, and ‘Abdur-Razzaq ‘Ali Artan , who terrorized the American pagans at Ohio State University, demonstrated what the bond of faith and the loyalty of brotherhood can achieve. May Allah accept the two brothers. With their blood, they actualized the verses of Allah, “Fight them, Allah will punish them by your hands and He will disgrace them, give you victory over them, satisfy the breasts of a believing people, and remove the fury from the believers’ hearts” (At-Tawbah 14-15). With their blood, they revived the state of anguish and terror that has plagued and haunted the disbelievers, a befitting response to the crusade waged against Islam and its khilafah. Therefore, let these brothers be an example of those who dutifully bore their responsibilities of jihad, who sought honor through Allah  alone, and who shunned the deviant calls to degradation. Throughout history and until the present day, incendiary attacks have played a significant role in modern and guerilla warfare, as well as in “lone wolf ” terrorism. Such attacks have been behind the destruction of towns, neighborhoods, and public, private, and governmental property, while likewise claiming numerous lives. Recently, on 15 Safar 1438AH, a soldier of the Khilafah stationed in Russia taught the despicable Crusaders a lesson on just how destructive an operation of such simplicity can be, successfully burning down a 3-story furniture factory in its entirety, as well as a chemical factory adjacent to it, both located in Losino-Petrovsky, a town northeast of Moscow. The fire was initiated on the ground floor, where it subsequently spread to the remaining floors and the neighboring buildings and continued to burn for three whole days, causing great financial losses for the Russian Crusaders. Likewise, the whole world witnessed the devastating fires that ravaged Jewish settlements in Palestine, destroying around 700 Jewish homes. Irrespective of the motive, this deliberate act of destruction demonstrated the lethality of such an effortless operation. The attacks likewise demonstrate that with some simple and readily accessible materials (i.e. flammables), one can easily terrorize an entire nation. This is a quick option for anyone intending to join the just terror campaign. Arson, as it applies to the just terror mujahid, is to initiate fires by using flammables to destroy the property of the Crusaders and, in some cases, kill several of them, sending them from the fire of this world to the inferno of Hellfire.1 All that is required of the mujahid is to acquire the flammable he wishes to use, select his target, and determine the best time for execution. Because many flammables are a part of everyday living, arson attacks are extremely difficult to prevent. Indeed, no more than a large container of gasoline (petrol) is needed for a successful attack. Of course, the gasoline can be acquired from any local gas station, where it is filled into the container. This procedure should not arouse any suspicion, as it is quite common to follow, especially when obtaining gas for a lawnmower, amongst other reasons. How to Make a Molotov Cocktail and Napalm Molotov cocktails are infamous for wreaking destruction with minimal effort and can be useful in an extended arson campaign against the Crusader enemy. Moreover, preparing a Molotov cocktail is a simple procedure requiring very basic and easily attainable components, these being: - a large gasoline container - a funnel - a medium-sized empty glass bottle - a piece of cloth, or a rag, or paper towels - enough gas to almost fill the glass bottle - a working lighter or matches to ignite the Molotov before launching it at the target Steps for Making a Molotov Cocktail First, the empty glass bottle is filled with gasoline using a funnel, leaving only a small space unfilled. The piece of cloth is then inserted into the bottle, all the way to the bottom, so that it can soak in the gasoline, while the other end of the cloth protrudes through the bottle’s mouth, enough so as to set it alight without any difficulty. The protruding end should also be soaked in gasoline, to allow for quick ignition when lit. The bottle’s mouth must then be sealed, not allowing any gasoline to spill. This can be done by firmly reapplying the bottle’s lid, or plugging its mouth with a cork plug cut to the required size, or by securely taping up the bottle mouth using strong electrical (insulating) tape and an appropriately sized piece of a plastic bag. Due to the fast rate at which gasoline burns away, it is better that one transforms the contents of his Molotov cocktail into a sticky, long-burning napalm solution, to ensure – by Allah’s permission – that the intended target properly catches fire before the gas finishes burning. Steps for Making a Napalm Molotov Cocktail All that is required are pieces of polystyrene (Styrofoam), which is commonly found in boxed packaging of children’s toys and household appliances or in the form of foam cups used for hot coffee at donut shops. One only has to pack the pieces of crushed foam inside the bottle (two thirds of which is filled with gasoline), gently shaking it, until the polystyrene dissolves, turning the mixture into a thick solution. He should continue adding polystyrene until the desired sticky glue-type consistency is reached. This stickiness will assist in allowing the area of the Molotov cocktail’s impact to burn for a longer period. Alternatively, instead of Styrofoam, one can add liquid laundry detergent or dishwashing liquid in the same manner, to thicken the gasoline and slow its burning. The piece of cloth is then inserted into the bottle, the protruding end should be soaked in gasoline, and the bottle’s mouth must then be sealed as explained before. Also, the exterior of the bottle should be cleansed of any napalm. Additionally, if needed for the arson attack, the mixture can be prepared and stored in a larger container and poured directly on the intended target before lighting the fire. How to Use the Molotov Cocktail The mechanism of the Molotov cocktail is simple. It is not an explosive requiring a detonator. Rather, once a naked flame makes contact with the solution inside the glass bottle, ignition occurs. Therefore, the Molotov cocktail should be launched at a hard surface of the intended target, shortly after lighting the protruding cloth. This will cause the glass bottle to smash, allowing the enflamed cloth to make contact with the flammable solution contained inside the bottle, igniting it and whatever the solution makes contact with. Ideal Target Locations Ideal target locations for arson include houses and apartment buildings, forest areas adjacent to residential areas, factories that produce cars, furniture, clothing, flammable substances, etc., gas stations, hospitals, bars, dance clubs, night clubs, banks, car showrooms, schools, universities, as well as churches, Rafidi temples, and so forth. The options are vast, leaving no excuse for delay. Execution Timing is important, especially in regards to targeting buildings. Practically, this means that one should pick a time of day when there is the least movement, preferably in the later part of night to the early hours of morning when people are generally asleep. In the case of residential buildings, or when the objective is to inflict casualties, before executing the attack, one should generally observe his target and identify the locations of exits leading out of the building. This information will assist in execution and increase the likelihood of killing or severely injuring those inside. When executing against a building and if one has access to its interior, he should initiate the fire on the staircase of the lower level, or just above the ground floor for high-rises, by dowsing the area with his container of fuel and lighting it at a safe distance. This will prevent anybody from escaping by the stairwell, while at the same time denying them the option of jumping from the windows (due to the height). This can be followed by setting fire to the exits leading out of the building, as this will seal any opportunity of anybody escaping the blaze. Initiating the arson attack from inside the building will allow the fire to rage before grabbing the attention of those outside. If one does not have formal access to the building, then he can seek alternative ways to breach the building’s security while undetected. An example of this is accessing the building during opening hours, while securing a suitable location to hide until closing time, exiting only when the coast is clear to commence the attack. Forest fires require that the intended target zone be dry, as fire cannot endure in damp or wet environments. After locating a dry area within the woodland, one should commence by dowsing the place with gasoline or his concoction of napalm, the latter being preferred, as it will allow for a prolonged initial blaze. As much area as possible should be covered with the solution, which is then ignited from a safe distance. Similarly to the targeting of buildings, forest fires should be conducted when the movement of people is at its least. Note: Throughout execution, one should avoid pouring gasoline directly from a container on any fires, as this could result in fire spreading to the container and thus himself catching fire. Instead, once an area is properly dowsed, he should ignite the gas from a safe distance or hurl a burning Molotov cocktail on the area if possible. Multiple Simultaneous Attacks Ideally, one should strive to maximize the just terror he inflicts, by executing multiple, simultaneous attacks, while following the same guidelines. Claiming Responsibility for the Attack Claiming responsibility for the attack can be done through various means. One example is merely carrying along a spray paint canister or thick permanent marker and writing therewith some words on a wall or on the ground near the target declaring that the attack was carried out by a soldier of the Islamic State. Also, one may prepare a simple message on a piece of paper declaring the same and briefly explain his motive or include other words that will taunt and enrage the disbelievers. The paper can then be taped to a brick and then thrown through the window of an occupied property close to the scene of the attack. Arson attacks should in no way be belittled. They cause great economic destruction and emotional havoc and can be repeated very easily. Even if such attacks do not always result in the killing of the enemies, Allah  has promised to reward the mujahid for simply harming and enraging them. “That is because they are not afflicted by thirst or fatigue or hunger in the cause of Allah, nor do they tread on any ground that enrages the kuffar, nor do they inflict upon an enemy any harm but that is registered for them as a righteous deed. Indeed, Allah does not allow the reward of good doers to be lost” (At-Tawbah 120).