Question: What is the condition of the Hisbah Center in Sinai Wilayah? Answer: All praise is due to Allah, Lord of the creation. May blessings and peace be upon the prophet of mercy and massacre – the cheerful warrior – and upon his family, his companions, and those who follow him. From the grace of Allah  upon His mujahid slaves in Sinai Wilayah is that they held onto the rope of Allah altogether, fought in order for Allah’s word to be supreme, and remained patient during tribulation and hardship, despite the Jews and apostates uniting against the mujahidin of the wilayah, and despite the enemies of Islam attempting day and night to harm and eliminate the mujahidin of the wilayah. And how hopeless is what the enemies attempt! Allah  said, “They want to extinguish the light of Allah with their mouths, but Allah refuses except to perfect His light, although the disbelievers dislike it. It is He who has sent His Messenger with guidance and the religion of truth to manifest it over all religion, although the mushrikin dislike it” (At-Tawbah 32-33). Sinai Wilayah did not increase, after all these plots, except in strength and firmness, and its soldiers did not increase except in faith and steadfastness. The mujahidin of the wilayah continued to strike – with their lesser numbers – the multitudes of the disbelievers, and continued to implement the Shari’ah of Allah as much as they could in all the areas over which they held control. And despite the war ignited here between Islam and kufr, the centers and offices of the shar’i dawawin (such as the Diwan of Judgment and Grievances, the Diwan of Hisbah, and the Diwan of Da’wah) continue to be active and to do their work on the ground, and all praise is due to Allah. Allah has blessed us and facilitated for us here in the Hisbah Center to combat many manifestations of corruption, among the most important of which is the smuggling of cigarettes, marijuana, opiates, and other substances. Likewise, we have prohibited the people from committing open sins and wrongs, such as women not wearing proper hijab, men allowing their clothing to fall below their ankles, and the free intermingling of men and women, as well as smoking, music, and satellite dishes, [which are used for broadcasting sinful programs]. Our main focus, however, is to wage war against the manifestations of shirk and bid’ah, including Sufism, sorcery, soothsaying, and grave-worship. Question: Due to the major role Sufism plays in spreading shirk and bid’ah among the people, and due to Sufi tariqas enslaving the people to the tawaghit, Sufism is one of the worst diseases to have afflicted many lands today. Can you tell us about the condition of Sufism in Sinai? Answer: Sufism in Sinai is divided into two major tariqas, the ‘Alawi-Ahmadi tariqah and the Jariri tariqah. The Ahmadi tariqah is widespread in the region of Jurah and its surrounding areas, such as the areas of Shabbanah, Dhahir, and Malafiyyah, and likewise the region of Shaykh Zuwayd and its surrounding areas. As for the Jariri tariqah, it has three main lodges. It has the Arab lodge in Isma’iliyyah and the Sa’ud lodge in the eastern region, and they are both in the land of Egypt. In Sinai, the tariqah has the Rawdah lodge, which many other lodges are affiliated with, such as the lodges in the neighborhood of Abu Jarir, and the areas of Tawil and Sabah, as well as others. The Ahmadi tariqah emerged approximately half a century ago at the hands of Abu Ahmad al-‘Alawi al-Filistini, who came from Gaza. Its headquarters was in the area of Tumah, and the Jurah lodge is affiliated with it. When al-‘Alawi died, he bequeathed the lodge to his son Mustafa but made Khalaf al-Khalfat its trustee due to Mustafa’s young age. From there, the taghut Khalaf became a head of the tariqah and Jurah became the mother-lodge. Then, this murtadd also died. He was buried in the Jurah lodge and his grave became a tomb with a green dome. As for the Jariri tariqah, it was established by the taghut ‘Id Abu Jarir and was centered in the three aforementioned lodges – the Sa’ud lodge, the Arab lodge, and the Rawdah lodge – which the Islamic State will eradicate, inshaallah, as soon as it conquers the areas hosting those lodges. The Jariri tariqah is more widespread and has more influence than the Ahmadi tariqah. It is also more extreme in deviance. Question: What are the worst practices of bid’ah and shirk that these Sufi tariqas engage in? Answer: Shirk has become very widespread in the midst of these tariqas, to the extent that those senior in age grew old upon it, and those young in age were raised upon it. Indeed, the disaster was immense. These Sufis believe that the dead have the power to bring about harm and benefit. Hence, they direct various types of worship towards the dead, such as du’a, tawakkul, sacrificial slaughter, and tawaf (circumambulation). They also claim that the dead are intermediaries between them and Allah  just as human kings have intermediaries between themselves and their subjects. Allah is far exalted above the mushrikin’s claim. Likewise, they follow their tawaghit and shuyukh in their falsehood, and they blindly obey them in all statements and deeds. All the Sufi tariqas in the world today share in these matters, while having minor differences between them. All the Sufi tariqas that we have known, heard of, or read about have fallen into shirk in one way or another. The followers of the Ahmadi tariqah believe in hulul (panentheism) and ittihad (pantheism) – and Allah’s refuge is sought – and they say that Allah  “stays in everything that is still and moves in everything that moves”! He is far exalted above what they say. Likewise, they venerate Ibn ‘Arabi, al Hallaj, and other imams of kufr and deviance. As for the Jariri tariqah, they are more known for grave-worship. They venerate tombs, perform sacrificial slaughter for them, perform tawaf around them, and so on. This tariqah has a connection to the religion of the Rafidah. The one who authored the book of poetry titled “Bustan al-Mahabbah” (The Garden of Love) – which they venerate and consider to be like a “quran” – is the dead Rafidi, an-Nimr al-Laythi, whose home was in Tanta. From among the rituals of worship practiced by the Sufis in Sinai – like Sufis elsewhere – is what they call “Hadrah,” which is their gathering together on the night before Jumu’ah and the night before Ithnayn for an innovated form of dhikr. They make dhikr as a group, in one voice, and they sway their bodies and repeat statements that contain major shirk, such as statements supplicating the dead and seeking their intercession. Question: What is relationship of the Sufi tariqas in Sinai with the Egyptian tawaghit? Answer: The relationship of these Sufis with the tawaghit’s agencies is a strong relationship, for no governor or security director was ever appointed except that he was visited by Khalaf al-Khalfat, the head of the Ahmadi tariqah. Khalaf had a good relationship with the Egyptian intelligence. Also, during the days of the Jewish occupation of Sinai, the Jurah lodge did not change its place. Instead, it was visited by the Jewish military ruler. The Jewish officers would also visit Khalaf at the lodge, as would the leaders of the Crusader forces, which are deceptively called “peacekeepers.” Khalaf al-Khalfat would utilize his followers to manifest the extent of his strength in the area. As for the Jariri tariqah, its relationship with the ruling taghut regimes has been very firm. Rather, many murtadd officers and officials love this tariqah. The dead dajjal, Sulayman Abu Hiraz, was also a member of this tariqah. Question: What was the stance of these Sufi tariqas on the mujahidin in Sinai both prior to and following the declaration of the mujahidin’s bay’ah to Amirul-Muminin? Answer: It is of course normal for enmity and hatred to exist between the people of tawhid and the people of shirk. As for Khalaf al-Khalfat, he always had severe enmity towards the muwahhidin. He would also call them “Sunniyyah,” meaning Ahlus-Sunnah, [indicative of the Rafidi roots in the Ahmadi tariqah]. The tawaghit of the Sufi tariqas always strived their utmost to enforce a strong barrier between their young followers and the mujahidin, fearing that their youth would follow the muwahhidin and would grasp the way of truth, and desiring to have these followers stay under their jahili banner and remain upon their ignorance and blindness. This isolation, which the Sufi tawaghit imposed on their youth, increased after the establishment of the Khilafah State and the escalation of the da’wah of tawhid. Despite that, Allah guided many of their youth to His religion. So they repented from their shirk, learned tawhid, and joined the ranks of the mujahidin. Those youth are among the most passionate of the people today in removing this shirk, and they have set the finest of examples in clinging to the ‘aqidah of wala and bara. Question: How did the mujahidin of Sinai Wilayah confront the Sufi tariqas? How did they deal with their heads and followers? Answer: After the mujahidin waged jihad so that the word of Allah would be supreme, and fought the imams of kufr from among the tawaghit ruling by manmade laws, they achieved power in an area of Sinai, and gained command therein. Thus, they endeavored to establish the religion of Allah in the land and to remove the symbols of shirk and jahiliyyah. They made a sincere resolve that there would not remain any Sufi tariqas in a land in which the banner of jihad rose high. The mujahidin began taking these Sufis to account, whether followers of the Ahmadi tariqah or the Jariri tariqah. Some of the Sufis immediately manifested their repentance after listening to the da’wah of tawhid and after they were warned against the repulsive nature of shirk. Some chose to turn away from tawhid in word and deed, at which point, the soldiers of the Islamic State spread out, established checkpoints, detained all of their mushrik leaders, and held them for a period of three days for istitabah (ordering one to repent), so they would repent or else be killed. By the grace of Allah , they repented on the first day. Their followers repented from apostasy before them, after the mujahidin clarified for them what they were practicing of shirk and innovations and explained the dangers of these deeds. All praise is due to Allah. There are still some large shirki lodges in the regions of Sinai and Egypt beyond the areas under the authority of the Khilafah. By the permission of Allah , those lodges will be a target for the hisbah and jihad of the Khilafah as soon as its soldiers conquer those regions. Indeed, the mujahidin will continue on their mission to guide people and bring them out of darkness and into the light. Question: What is the role of the Da’wah Center in combating shirk generally and Sufism specifically amongst the people of Sinai? Answer: With cooperation between the Da’wah Center and the Hisbah Center, the soldiers of the Islamic State implement shar’i programs for giving da’wah to the people and teaching them the religion. We ask Allah  for success in these programs. We also print and disseminate da’wah booklets and pamphlets on ‘aqidah issues, and hold da’wah expeditions in which we focus on strengthening the tawhid of Muslim commoners and warning them against all forms of shirk and apostasy. Question: Concerning the individual named Abu Hiraz, we noticed the media focused much attention to the story of his killing. So who was he and why was there all this interest in him on the part of the murtaddin? Answer: The story was that the Hisbah personnel detained two criminal soothsayers – Sulayman Misbah Hamdan Abu Hiraz and Qutayfan Burayk ‘Id Mansur. The two were tawaghit who claimed to have knowledge of the unseen. People frequently visited them to ask them about the unseen and to request their sorcery for the purposes of healing and blessing. Abu Hiraz was almost 97 years old. The other soothsayer learned this shirk – which included soothsaying and the invoking of demons – from Abu Hiraz. Abu Hiraz was also one of the heads of the Jariri Sufi tariqah, and for this reason there was so much focus by the media on the story of his killing, as he had a very strong relationship with the regime murtaddin, to the extent that many members of the Egyptian government and military would seek him and believed he had the power to bring about benefit and harm. They would claim that he was a “saint” and would ask him about the affairs of the unseen. His student, Qutayfan, was the same. Moreover, he erected a pillar inside his home and would order the people to make tawaf around it and to perform sacrificial slaughter in front of it. He would claim to have knowledge of the unseen, would perform sorcery, and would inform them of the locations of stolen items [whose locations he claimed to learn through his alleged knowledge of the unseen]. He performed this shirk for 20 years after having learned it at the hands of Abu Hiraz. Question: How did the Judgment and Grievances Center deal with these two murtaddin after they were detained? Answer: The judge ruled both of the soothsayers to be killed as apostates due to their claim of having knowledge of the unseen and their practice of soothsaying, and because they were both from among the main tawaghit who call people to commit shirk in the worship of Allah under the pretext of “sainthood.” Allah  said, “[He is] Knower of the unseen, and He does not disclose His [knowledge of the] unseen to anyone” (Al-Jinn 26), and the Prophet  said, “Whoever goes to a kahin or ‘arraf [i.e. soothsayers] and believes what he says as being true, has disbelieved in what was revealed to Muhammad” (Reported by Ahmad and al-Hakim from Abu Hurayrah). This is Allah’s ruling concerning one who believes a soothsayer, so how then with the soothsayer himself, who makes himself a partner of Allah  [by claiming knowledge of the unseen]? Allah’s Messenger  said, “Whoever changes his religion, kill him” (Reported by al-Bukhari from Ibn ‘Abbas). Likewise, ‘Umar Ibn al-Khattab  wrote to Abu Musa  saying, “Kill every sorcerer and soothsayer” (Reported by Ibn Abi Shaybah). Question: Some people have claimed that this soothsayer was arrested by the soldiers of the Islamic State and then released, so what is the truth of the matter? Answer: This information is incorrect. He was never released. Rather, he was detained only once. The ruling on him and his companion was that they were to be killed as apostates without istitabah and that their possessions were to be confiscated as fay (spoils taken without battle) for the Muslims. Their mushrik followers spread many rumors that had no basis, including some humorous superstitions, such as their claim that the sword was not able to cut off his head. This was before our brothers in the media office for Sinai Wilayah released pictures of them with their heads cut off. As a result, the followers of the soothsayer shrank back and went mute. Question: What is your message to the Sufi mushrikin in Sinai? Answer: We say to all members of the Sufi lodges – both the leaders and the followers – inside and outside Sinai, that we will not permit the presence of Sufi tariqas in Sinai specifically and in Egypt in general, and that we do not want anything but guidance for you. So come to a word that is equitable between us and you – that we will not worship except Allah and not associate anything with Him, and that we seek judgment from the Book of Allah and the Sunnah of His Messenger . We say to you, learn tawhid and iman, as well as their nullifiers. And know that the mujahidin did not go forth and wage jihad except to establish tawhid and remove shirk, and that they readily sacrificed their blood, fighting the most tyrannical nations of kufr on the face of the earth. By Allah, the censure of critics will not affect them concerning the upholding of Allah’s religion. And know that your ruling with us is that you are kafir mushrikin and that your blood is filthy and permissible to shed. But we call you, we order you to repent, we wish Islam and guidance for you, and we hope for you to follow the path of the final prophet – Muhammad  – and the path of his companions, their successors, and those after them. Indeed, all goodness lies in following the Salaf, and all evil lies in heretical innovation and in following the Khalaf (later generations). In closing, we praise Allah for granting us the blessing of tawhid, jihad, and khilafah. Indeed, He – may He be glorified – is worthy of praise. And may Allah send blessings and peace upon our prophet, Muhammad, and upon his family and companions.