Abu Dawud reported in his sunan from Abu Umamah al-Bahili  that a man said, “O Messenger of Allah, permit me to practice siyahah.” So the Prophet  said, “Indeed, the siyahah of my ummah is jihad for Allah’s cause.” Abu Dawud was silent concerning the authenticity of this hadith. Al-Hakim reported it in his mustadrak and declared its isnad sahih. ‘Abdul-Haqq al-Ishbili and adh Dhahabi declared the hadith sahih. And an-Nawawi and al-‘Iraqi declared its isnad jayyid (good). This hadith is from among that which some people of hijrah and jihad have incorrectly understood, thinking that the siyahah of jihad means, as according to its modern usage, “travelling from country to country for the purpose of pleasure or sightseeing and discovery.”1 Due to this misunderstanding, if one were to observe some aspect of beauty in the land to which he has made hijrah, such as mountains, rivers, beaches, and trees, or were to find some aspect of luxury in food, drink, dress, and shelter, he would point to that blossom of worldly life and say, “Allah’s Messenger  spoke the truth. Indeed, jihad is the ‘tourism’ of the Ummah!” This is how many people have misunderstood the hadith and the athar, and what a big difference between what is intended in the noble hadith and what the minds of many people have understood! If it were asked, “What is the meaning of the ‘siyahah’ mentioned if it is not tourism?” the answer would be that the uncommon Arabic words in hadith are to be interpreted according to the eloquent tongue of the Arabs and according to the understanding of the righteous Salaf – not according to the terminology coined by the later generations, nor according to that with which the people of the modern era are acquainted – and this is done by referring back to the imams specialized in the language and the uncommon Arabic words, who have preserved the meanings of the Quran and hadith for those generations after them just as the Quran reciters and the muhaddithin have preserved the words of the two revelations – may Allah reward them, on behalf of Islam and the Muslims, with tremendous good. Ibn Qutaybah  (died 276AH) stated in his explanation of the term “siyahah” in the athar, “Siyahah is to leave the cities and travel into the open land, like the action of…the worshipers of Bani Israil… He  meant that Allah  forbade the Muslims from this and sent him with the religion of moderation and monotheism” (Gharib al-Hadith). Ibnul-Anbari  (died 328AH) said, “Siyahah is to head to the outer reaches of the lands and to isolate oneself from the people, such that one attends neither Jumu’ah nor congregational prayers” (az-Zahir). Abu Mansur al-Azhari  (died 370AH) said, “Al-Layth said, ‘Siyahah is that a man travels throughout the land for worship and monasticism, and the siyahah of this ummah is fasting and regularly attending the masajid’” (Tahdhib al-Lughah). Thus, the siyahah that the Prophet  did not permit is that of monasticism, which the Most Just of Judges had not legislated. Allah  said, “Then We sent Our messengers following their [i.e. Nuh and Ibrahim’s] footsteps and followed them with ‘Isa, the son of Maryam, and gave him the Injil. And We placed in the hearts of those who followed him compassion and mercy and monasticism, which they innovated; We did not prescribe it for them except [that they did so] seeking the approval of Allah. But they did not observe it duly. So We gave the ones who believed among them their reward, but many of them are defiantly disobedient” (Al-Hadid 27). ‘Urwah Ibn az-Zubayr  said, “The wife of ‘Uthman Ibn Madh’un entered…upon ‘Aishah looking disheveled, so ‘Aishah asked her, ‘What’s wrong?’ She said, ‘My husband prays all night and fasts all days.’ Then, the Prophet  entered and ‘Aishah mentioned that to him, so Allah’s Messenger  met with ‘Uthman and said, ‘O ‘Uthman, indeed monasticism has not been prescribed for us. Is there not an example in me for you? For by Allah, I am the most fearful of Allah among you and the one most observant of His limits’” (Reported by Ahmad, Abu Dawud, and Ibn Hibban). Likewise, when one of the Sahabah  sought permission from the Prophet  to practice siyahah, he  forbade him from imitating the deviant monks and guided him to what Allah  had legislated as a methodology for the best ummah brought forth for mankind, jihad for His cause, which contains what is found in the monastic siyahah of zuhd, reclusion, dhikr, and worship. And by adhering to these realities, the mujahid may come closer to Allah and thereby become from among the monks of the night and the knights of the day, and they are “a multitude from the former peoples and a few from the latter peoples” (Al-Waqi’ah 13-14). The definition given by the linguistic imams is supported by some weak ahadith attributed to the Prophet , including, “Wage jihad, for it is the monasticism of Islam” (Reported by Ahmad from Abu Sa’id al-Khudri), and, “For every prophet there is monasticism, and the monasticism of this ummah is jihad for Allah’s cause” (Reported by Ahmad from Anas), and, “Wage jihad, for it is the monasticism of my ummah” (Reported by Ibn Hibban from Abu Dharr). Also from among them is a reporting of the hadith of ‘Uthman Ibn Madh’un, which states he came to the Prophet  and said, “Permit for me castration,” so Allah’s Messenger  said, “He who either castrates or is castrated is not from us. Indeed, the castration of my ummah is fasting.” Then he said, “O Allah’s Messenger, permit for me siyahah,” so he said, “Indeed, the siyahah of my ummah is jihad for Allah’s cause.” Then he said, “O Allah’s Messenger, permit for me monasticism,” so he said, “Indeed, the monasticism of my ummah is to sit in the masajid while waiting for the prayer” (Reported by Ibnul-Mubarak in az-Zuhd with a weak isnad). Also from among them is, “There is no siyahah, no tabattul, and no rahbaniyyah [monasticism] in Islam” (Reported by ‘Abdur-Razzaq from Tawus in mursal form). Ibn Qutaybah said, “With regards to his statement, ‘no rahbaniyyah,’ he means the deeds of monks, which entails continuous fasting, the wearing of coarse robes, the abandonment of eating meat, and the likes of such deeds… And with regards to his statement, ‘and no tabattul,’ he means the abandonment of marriage” (Gharib al-Hadith). Ibnul-Anbari said, “A rahib [monk] practicing tabattul is one who is cut off from others in devotion to Allah  and has abandoned marriage.” He then mentioned the hadith of Tawus, and then said, “Rahbaniyyah is to remain in the monasteries and abandon eating meat” (az-Zahir). The definition by the linguistic imams is likewise supported by some of the athar of the Salaf, including, “The siyahah of this ummah is fasting” (Reported by at-Tabari from ‘Aishah), and likewise “‘As-Saihun’ (At-Tawbah 112)’ are the fasting men,” and “‘Saihat’ (At-Tahrim 5) are fasting women” (Both reported by at-Tabari from a number of the Salaf). Ibn Qutaybah said, “The original meaning of ‘saih’ is one who travels in the land…and the one who is a saih in the land abstains from his desires, so the fasting person was likened to him due to his withholding from food, drink, and intercourse during his fast” (Gharib al-Quran). Likewise, at-Tabari  stated in his tafsir, “Some of the scholars of the Arabic language would say, ‘We view that the fasting person was called a saih because the saih has no provisions with him and simply eats wherever he finds food, so it is as if it was taken from that.’” Also from among these athar is the following narration, that Sufyan Ibn ‘Uyaynah  said, “‘Amr narrated to us that he heard Wahb Ibn Munabbih saying, ‘Siyahah was present in Bani Israil…’” Ibn ‘Uyaynah commented, “If one abandons food, drink, and women, he is a saih” (Reported by at-Tabari). Likewise, al-Marwazi  (died 294AH) said, “Ishaq Ibn Suwayd [a Tabi’i who died in 131AH] said, ‘They [meaning the Salaf] viewed siyahah to be fasting the day and spending the night in prayer’” (Mukhtasar Qiyam al-Layl). After all this, it becomes undoubtedly clear that what is intended by “The sihayah of my ummah is jihad” is the prohibition of the innovated siyahah of monks and what it entails of claiming tawakkul and zuhd by abandoning provisions while traveling and by forsaking marriage, food, meat, and sleep – and this is a practice that some of the deviant Sufi tariqas inherited from the kafir Jews and Christians. What is also intended by it is guidance to that which is better than the innovated siyahah, to jihad for Allah’s cause and what it entails of striving in worship and in seeking to meet Allah . This is bearing in mind that some of the Salaf held the alternative to siyahah to be i’tikaf, the night prayer, fasting, or seeking knowledge. Also among them are those who held the alternative to be hijrah, which was paired with jihad in the Quran and the Sunnah. ‘Abdur-Rahman Ibn Zayd Ibn Aslam  (died 182AH) stated, concerning the tafsir of Allah’s  statement, “As-Saihun,” and His  statement, “Saihat,” “There is neither in the Quran nor for the ummah of Muhammad any siyahah except for hijrah” (Reported by at-Tabari). He also said, “Their siyahah was the hijrah they performed when they made hijrah to Madinah” (Reported by Ibn Abi Hatim). Therefore, whoever wishes to be from among those who practice the siyahah of the Sunnah, as understood by the Salaf, must perform hijrah and jihad, must strive against himself for Allah’s sake by adhering to zuhd and dhikr in the course of his ribat and combat as much as he can, and must abandon what Allah dislikes of wrongs and sins, both hidden and manifest, including pride, arrogance, backbiting, slander, and fighting for the sake of attaining booty or achieving fame. To conclude, with regards to the tafsir of Allah’s  statement, “Indeed, Allah has purchased from the believers their lives and their properties [in exchange] for that they will have Jannah. They fight for Allah’s cause, so they kill and are killed. [It is] a true promise [binding] upon Him in the Tawrah, the Injil, and the Quran. And who is truer to his covenant than Allah? So rejoice in your transaction which you have contracted. And it is that which is the great attainment. [Such believers are] the repentant, the saihun…” (At-Tawbah 111-112), Ibnul-Qayyim  said, “Siyahah has been interpreted as fasting, and it’s been interpreted as traveling to seek knowledge, and it’s been interpreted as jihad, and it’s been interpreted as adhering to obedience. The reality is that it is the siyahah [journey] of the heart in remembering Allah, loving Him, turning to Him in repentance, and longing to meet Him, and all of the aforementioned deeds follow as a result. For this reason, Allah  described those new wives who would have replaced the wives of the Prophet  had he divorced the old ones as being saihat, but their siyahah is neither jihad, nor traveling to seek knowledge, nor continuously fasting. It is but the sihayah of their hearts in loving Allah, fearing Him, turning to Him in repentance, and remembering Him. Consider how Allah  paired between repentance and worship. The first is to abandon what He dislikes, and the second is to do what He loves. Likewise, hamd [praise] and siyahah are paired together. The first is to praise Him with His attributes of perfection and with the siyahah of the tongue in the best of His dhikr, and the second is the siyahah of the heart in loving Him, remembering Him, and venerating Him, just as Allah  paired between worship and siyahah in the description of the wives, for the first is to worship Him by the limbs and the second is to worship Him by the heart” (Hadi al-Arwah). Allah knows best. May Allah send blessings and peace upon the truthful, trustworthy prophet and messenger, and upon his good and pure wives and family. 