The fifth path to victory is preparation. Allah  said, “Prepare for them whatever you can of strength” (Al-Anfal 60). The author of “Adwa al-Bayan” said, “This is a decisive order for preparing as much strength as possible, no matter how advanced the means of strength become. Thus, this is a decisive order to adjust with the development of worldly affairs in this regards.” It is known that waging jihad today is fard ‘ayn upon every Muslim. And whatever is required for an obligation to be fulfilled is itself an obligation. Allah’s Messenger  said, “Shoot, O Bani Isma’il, for indeed your father was a shooter” (Reported by al-Bukhari from Salamah Ibn al-Akwa’). And he  said, “Indeed strength is shooting” (Reported by Muslim from ‘Uqbah Ibn ‘Amir). As-San’ani said in his commentary on the previous hadith, “This hadith explains the ‘strength’ mentioned in the ayah, that it means ‘shooting arrows,’ as that is what was customary during the life of the Prophet. This includes shooting rifles against the mushrikin and the bughat” (Subul as-Salam). In short, making preparations for the current battle against the Crusader and murtadd enemies is an obligation upon every Muslim who is obliged to perform jihad. Here, I will mention some points: First is what Abu Ja’far at-Tabari  mentioned in his tafsir of His  saying, “Whatever you can of strength.” He said, “What you are capable of preparing for them of weaponry that will be a means of strength for you against them” (Jami’ al-Bayan). Accordingly, producing weapons is one of the greatest aids to waging jihad for Allah’s cause. Today, this production is called the “war industry.” Allah mentioned this industry in more than one place in His book. Indeed, He was very precise when He  said, “We taught him the making of labus for you, to fortify you against your [enemy in] war. So will you be grateful?” (Al-Anbiya 80). At-Tabari  said, “Labus, according to the Arabs, is every form of arms, be it a coat of armor, breastplate, sword, or spear.” Ibn Kathir said, “[Allah taught him] how to make coats of armor.” The Lord of might mentioned the description of armor, saying, “Make full coats of mail, and measure the links” (Saba 11), meaning long and wide coats of armor. As for, “And measure the links,” the author of “Adwa al-Bayan” said, “Meaning make the links and nails, when producing coats of mail, using appropriate measures.” Ibn Kathir reported from Qatadah that coats of armor used to be smooth, like sheets, and Dawud was the first to make them with links. This shows the divine attention given regarding the manufacturing of armor, to the point that Allah mentioned its finer details and then reminded His slaves of this great favor, saying, “So will you be grateful?” Unfortunately, many of the mujahidin, if not most of them, are unconcerned with this in our war against our enemy. This, despite its many benefits, the most significant being the protection of the mujahid’s life – which is the dearest thing to us – against enemy bullets and bomb fragments. A second benefit is the securing of the mujahid from being injured in critical areas, which would hinder him from continuing the jihad or make him lose consciousness, thus remaining on the battlefield thereafter, exposing him to being taken prisoner by the enemies. A third benefit is that the mujahid is thereby aided in reaching the points closest to the enemy. This especially applies to the heroes who storm enemy positions and the lions of istishhadi operations. A final benefit to note is that we are not more courageous than Allah’s Messenger , who would wear a coat of armor and a helmet, just as he had a sword. ‘Aishah  said, “Allah’s Messenger  passed away while his coat of armor was pawned to a Jew for thirty measures of barley” (Reported by al-Bukhari). It is also established that the Prophet  wore two coats of armor, one on top of the other, on the Day of Uhud (Reported by Ahmad and Abu Dawud from as- Saib Ibn Yazid). Likewise, Anas Ibn Malik narrated that the Prophet  entered Makkah, the year it was conquered, and he was wearing a helmet on his head (Reported by al-Bukhari and Muslim). Moreover, the Lord of might guided us to using metal ingots as the basis of producing the weapons of today. In the story of Dhul-Qarnayn, He  said, “‘Bring me blocks of iron,’ until, when he leveled what was between the two flanks, he said, ‘Blow,’ until, when he had made it a fire, he said, ‘Bring me molten copper to pour over it’” (Al-Kahf 96). That, and it has been discovered recently that adding a percentage of copper to iron is the best way to harden the iron and increase its strength, resistance, and solidity. Also, Allah taught Nuh how to construct ships. He said, “Make the ark under Our eyes and with Our inspiration” (Hud 37). At-Tabari reported from Ibn ‘Abbas  that he said, “He did not know how to make the ark, so Allah inspired to him to make it based on the model of a bird’s breast.” And the Prophet  commended those soldiers of his ummah who rode ships, as is in the hadith of Umm Haram  (Reported by al-Bukhari and Muslim). So is there anyone to undertake such production? Allah  also said, “Allah came at their building from the foundations, so the roof fell upon them from above” (An-Nahl 26). It is known to anyone who understands explosives and how to use them that this verse contains the basis for demolition using explosives. Furthermore, no industry has been encouraged as much as the manufacturing of war tools, as it was reported that the Messenger  said, “Three people enter into Jannah due to a single arrow: The one who made it, hoping it will be used for good, the one who shoots it, and the one who passes it [to the shooter]” (Reported by Ibn Majah, Abu Dawud, at-Tirmidhi, and an-Nasai from ‘Uqbah Ibn ‘Amir). How, then, about one who manufactures a rocket or an aircraft or invents an explosive material? As for preparations related to media, then indeed the battles of the mujahidin and their enemies revolve, today, around two important axes. The first is the military axis, which has already been mentioned. The second is the axis of confronting the Satanic media that has distorted the identity of the Ummah, perverted its ‘aqidah and values, and propped up the pillars of humiliation and psychological defeat. Indeed, the blazing missiles of media are more lethal and more dangerous for the Ummah and its men than the infernal missiles fired from warplanes. Accordingly, it is only appropriate that the mujahidin – those whom Allah has accommodated with the ability to break the force of their enemies militarily – also contend on another front: the media front. Allah’s Messenger  said, “Wage jihad against the mushrikin with your tongues” (Reported by Ahmad from Anas Ibn Malik). He  also said, “Indeed, the believer wages jihad with his sword and his tongue. By the One in whose hand is my soul, it is as if you are shooting [with your words] a barrage of arrows” (Reported by Ahmad from Ka’b Ibn Malik). Allah’s Messenger  would employ his era’s most effective form of media, that which was harshest on the hearts of his enemies: poetry. At-Tirmidhi and an-Nasai reported from Anas Ibn Malik that the Prophet  entered Makkah for ‘Umrat al-Qada and ‘Abdullah Ibn Rawahah was walking in front of him, saying, O sons of infidels, leave alone His way, for we strike for His revelation today – a strike that, heads from their napes, will split, making a beloved, his beloved, forget. ‘Umar then said, “Ibn Rawahah! You would recite poetry in front of Allah’s Messenger and at the Haram of Allah?!” So the Prophet  said to him, “Leave him alone, ‘Umar, for [such words] pass more quickly through them than a barrage of arrows.” And just as Allah’s Messenger  rejoiced when Khalid – the military leader – accepted Islam, he also rejoiced when one of the greatests poets accepted Islam. When the delegation of the Ansar came for the bay’ah of ‘Aqabah, he said to al-‘Abbas, “Do you know these two men?” When he turned, he said, “Yes, this is al-Bara Ibn Ma’rur, the chief of his people, and this is Ka’b Ibn Malik.” Ka’b said, “By Allah, I will not forget the word of Allah’s Messenger  when he asked, ‘The poet?’” Al-‘Abbas replied, “Yes” (Reported by Ahmad). It was also related that Allah’s Messenger  would prepare his poets well, as he said to Hassan Ibn Thabit, “Go to Abu Bakr and have him teach you the faults of the people, for he is knowledgeable of lineages” (Al-Bayhaqi: Lubab al- Ansab). Hassan sought permission from the Prophet  to poetically insult the mushrikin [of Quraysh], to which he replied, “How about my lineage?” Hassan said, “I will spare you from them just as a hair is pulled out from dough” (Reported by al-Bukhari from ‘Aishah). And the Prophet  enjoyed good poetry. He said, “The most truthful word spoken by a poet is the word of Labid, ‘Alas, everything save Allah is of no avail,’ and Umayyah Ibn Abis-Salt nearly entered into Islam” (Reported by al-Bukhari and Muslim from Abu Hurayrah). Likewise, he  made Thabit Ibn Qays Ibn Shammas – one of those who were promised Jannah – a spokesman to speak out for Islam and the Muslims. So when Bani Tamim came with their spokesman and poet, the Prophet  said to Thabit Ibn Qays, “Stand and reply to him.” Thabit then responded. At that, al-Aqra’ Ibn Habis said, “Indeed, Muhammad is being supported. By Allah, I do not understand. Our spokesman spoke, but their spokesman had better words, and our poet spoke, but their poet was more poetic and had better words.” He then came closer to the Prophet  and said, “I testify that there is no god except Allah and that you are the Messenger of Allah” (Reported by Abu Nu’aym in Ma’rifat as-Sahabah from Jabir Ibn ‘Abdillah). We are able to summarize the most important goals of Islamic media in the following points: 1. Defending Muslim honor and creed. Allah  made an exception of poets [who are generally dispraised], saying, “Except those who believe, do righteous deeds, remember Allah often, and take revenge after they were wronged” (Ash-Shu’ara 227). Ibn ‘Abbas said, “This means that they respond to the kuffar who were defaming the believers” (Reported by at-Tabari). Allah’s Messenger  said, “O Hassan! Respond on behalf of Allah’s Messenger. O Allah, empower him with the Holy Spirit [i.e. Jibril ]” (Reported by al-Bukhari and Muslim from Abu Hurayrah). Ibn ‘Asakir reported that Allah’s Messenger  said, “Who will defend the honor of the Muslims?” So Ka’b said, “I will!” And Ibn Rawahah said, “I will!” And Hassan said, “I will!” The Prophet said, “Yes. Defame them and the Holy Spirit will aid you against them” (Tarikh Dimashq). He  also said, “Indeed, Allah empowers Hassan with the Holy Spirit whenever he boasts for Allah’s Messenger or speaks up for him” (Reported by at- Tirmidhi from ‘Aishah). 2. Raising the morale of the Ummah’s men, and specifically that of the mujahidin. Salamah Ibn al- Akwa’ said, “We went out with the Prophet  to Khaybar, marching at night. One of the men said to ‘Amir Ibn al-Akwa’, ‘Won’t you let us hear some of your songs?’ And ‘Amir was a poet, so he dismounted and urged the men forward through song” (Reported by al-Bukhari and Muslim). 3. Exposing the lies in the creed and morals of the kuffar and the murtaddin, showing the Ummah the filthy reality of the kuffar’s society and the falseness of what the kuffar have to offer, curbing the kuffar’s defiant aggressions towards the Muslims, and casting terror into the kuffar’s hearts. It is reported that Ibn Sirin said, “The poets of the Muslims were Hassan Ibn Thabit, ‘Abdullah Ibn Rawahah, and Ka’b Ibn Malik. Ka’b would threaten the mushrikin with war. ‘Abdullah would insult them and their kufr. And Hassan would attack their lineages.” He also said, “It reached me that [the tribe of ] Daws accepted Islam fearing the saying of Ka’b Ibn Malik: We finished them off in Tihamah and Khaybar, then our swords we sheathed and put away; We asked the swords for news, and if they spoke, ‘Daws or Thaqif,’ their blades would say. So Daws said to each other, ‘Go and take care of yourselves. Don’t let what happened to Thaqif happen to you’” (Ibn ‘Abdil Barr: Al-Isti’ab). 4. Conveying a truthful picture of the battles fought between the heroes of the religion and their enemies, and documenting the true heroism of the men of Islam, for fear that it would be lost or stolen by the merchants of blood.