In a previous article titled “The Wicked Scholars Are Cursed,”1 we clarified the correct meaning of “scholars” and mentioned the most important traits by which they became imams in the religion. It is clear by the shar’i texts that the “scholars” of evil and deviance can never be counted among the scholars no matter how much they memorize and pen and no matter how famous they become. Rather, they are more similar to the Jews, who had knowledge, but concealed what they knew, did not act by it, and even called others to deviance. And because of the numerous “scholars” of evil in our era who have persisted in calling to misguidance, it is necessary to mention their ugly traits until the people are heedful of their danger. Concealing the Truth Indeed, among the purposes of knowledge is to convey it and make it clear to the people, as their guidance and interests are linked to it. By contrast, concealing it and not manifesting it are from the greatest of forbidden matters and severest of destructive sins. Thus, Allah has taken a covenant from every individual whom He gave knowledge, ordering that he convey it and not conceal what people need from it. Allah  said, “[Mention], when Allah took a covenant from those who were given the Scripture, [saying], ‘You must make it clear to the people and not conceal it.’ But they threw it away behind their backs and exchanged it for a small price. And wretched is that which they purchased” (Al ‘Imran 187). As such, the evil “scholar” is a traitor to Allah’s religion, a denier of the blessing of knowledge, and a cause for the people’s deviance. Thus, Allah decreed that he be cursed and placed the people’s curse upon him, due to his endeavor to cheat mankind by concealing the truth from them. Allah  said, “Indeed, those who conceal what We sent down of clear proofs and guidance after We made it clear for the people in the Scripture – those are cursed by Allah and cursed by those who curse” (Al-Baqarah 159). Indeed, the greatest matter which the evil “scholars” have concealed from the people is the condition of the tawaghit and the ruling of Allah on them, as Allah has commanded us to abandon the tawaghit and disbelieve in them, and has made this from the basis of tawhid and iman. However, when the people saw their prominent “scholars” compromising with the taghut rulers and being silent about their shirk and corruption (and even issuing fatawa permitting shirk for the sake of some so-called benefit), many people then believed in the tawaghit, became their allies, entered their religion, and even became their soldiers. The reason for this apostasy was that the evil “scholars” concealed the truth and mixed it with falsehood. In this regards, one who looks to the Arabian Peninsula will find that the Saudi tawaghit did not dare to manifest much of their kufr and corruption and were not followed in apostasy by a party of the people except due to the committee of senior agents,2 Ibn Baz, Ibn ‘Uthaymin, al-Fawzan, the contemporary Al ash-Shaykh, and their likes. This was due to these “scholars” concealing the truth and not clarifying the condition of Al Salul to the people. Rather, they added to the deception by describing them as “wulat al-amr” (people of authority) and claimed that they were the rightful rulers! Likewise, they concealed from the people the ruling on the taghuti legislative decrees, the ruling on establishing Crusader military bases in the land, and the ruling on permitting riba. As a result, many people foolishly followed the tawaghit, deviating and apostatizing thereby. These “scholars” therefore have a share in the evils committed by those who have followed them, without the evils of those followers diminishing at all. This is the same case in Egypt, as the reason for the people’s deviance and their following of Hosni Mubarak and Sisi thereafter is the “scholars” of al-Azhar and the claimants to Salafiyyah. Likewise, the reason for the people entering into the shirk of parliaments and elections is the tawaghit of the Murtadd Brotherhood and the Party of Darkness.3 We find this scenario repeated in all other lands. Altering and Distorting the Law From among the traits of the evil “scholars” is that they alter and distort the law – if they are unable to completely conceal it – by giving corrupt interpretations of the shar’i texts and diverting theses texts from their true meanings to false meanings, just as Allah  said about the Jews, “[They] distort words from their [proper] usages” (An-Nisa 46). They then attribute their distortions and false interpretations to Allah , just as the Jews did before them; Allah  said, “Indeed, there is among them a party who alter the Scripture with their tongues so you may think it is from the Scripture, but it is not from the Scripture. And they say, ‘This is from Allah,’ but it is not from Allah. And they speak lies about Allah while they know” (Al ‘Imran 78). As to the shar’i texts ordering jihad, the evil “scholars” persisted in changing their combat-related meaning to other meanings, in order to divert people from fighting the kuffar and the murtaddin. On top of that, they innovated meanings for jihad, meanings for which Allah had not sent down any authority and which even contradict the reality of jihad, such as their claim that jihad is to enlist in the armies of the tawaghit, or to engage in the shirki democratic process in order to compete with the secularists in claiming for oneself Allah’s right to rule and legislate, or to do other deeds that take one out of the religion, deeds which these cursed “scholars” attempt to associate with the pinnacle of Islam, jihad. Likewise, with respect to the shar’i texts that contain the order to openly declare the truth, the evil “scholars” have resorted to nullifying them and not abiding by them, claiming that Allah commands so! They used as evidence His  statement, “Do not throw [yourselves] with your [own] hands into destruction” (Al-Baqarah 195). This is despite the fact that what is intended by “destruction” is the abandonment of jihad, as the companion Abu Ayyub al-Ansari  clarified when he said, “Throwing ourselves into destruction is by attending to our wealth, amending it, and abandoning jihad” (Reported by Abu Dawud). Thus, how ugly the evil “scholars” are and how ugly their deception is! Averting People from Allah’s Path Indeed, the evil “scholar,” by treading the path of deviance, fervently endeavors to swerve the people onto his path and avert them from the path of truth, since he fears that his deeds would contradict his statements if he were to manifest the shar’i texts for the people without deception and deceit. He resorts to distortion and to twisting the meanings of the texts so that the matter can be in accordance with his condition and in agreement with his desires. For this reason, you find him averting the youth from jihad, because he inclines towards the Dunya and is afflicted with the condition of sitting back from jihad. And because he is afraid of openly declaring the truth, you see him dressing the truth with falsehood, making this the basis of his da’wah, and claiming it to be the essence of “wisdom” and “cunning.” So he neither manifests the truth nor suffices in concealing it. Rather, he deceives, distorts, dodges, and deludes, and speaks about Allah without knowledge, in order to avert people from Allah’s path, as was done by the rabbis and monks before him. Allah  said, “O you who believe, indeed many of the rabbis and monks devour the wealth of people unjustly and avert [them] from the path of Allah. And those who hoard gold and silver and spend it not in the path of Allah – give them tidings of a painful punishment” (At-Tawbah 34). Fervently Craving the Dunya Nothing made the evil “scholars” resort to concealment of the truth and deception other than their love and fervent pursuit of the Dunya. No one obligated or forced them into hypocrisy, lying against Allah, and kufr. Rather, their craving for taghut-offered jobs and salaries is the main reason for their fall into evil. Some of them also desire prestige and closeness to the tawaghit. Some of them were seduced by their appearance on television and their reception of donations, until it became extremely difficult to conceal themselves from the limelight for the sake of speaking the truth. Hence, they preferred to conceal what Allah revealed – those matters which the tawaghit do not want manifested to the people – and purchased therewith a small price. Allah  said, “Indeed, those who conceal what Allah has sent down of the Book and exchange it for a small price – they consume not into their bellies except the Fire. And Allah will not speak to them on the Day of Resurrection, nor will He purify them. And they will have a painful punishment” (Al-Baqarah 174). He  also said, “[Mention], when Allah took a covenant from those who were given the Scripture, [saying], ‘You must make it clear to the people and not conceal it.’ But they threw it away behind their backs and exchanged it for a small price. And wretched is that which they purchased” (Al ‘Imran 187). Ibnul-Qayyim  said, “Any scholar who prefers and favors the Dunya will inevitably say about Allah other than the truth” (al-Fawaid). Being Affected by Dissuasion, Scaremongering, And Threats, and Thus Straying from the Truth These are all traits of the evil “scholars.” Hence, these “scholars” go back on the truth after having conviction in it and manifest falsehood in submission to the desires of the tawaghit, doing so to keep their dunya unharmed. What a tremendous crime and a severe form of treachery they commit! Their condition is like that of Bal’am Ibn Ba’ura, who was a man from the city of the Jabbarin (the Giants). If the evil “scholars” in our era were all to gather, they would not amass a tenth of the knowledge of Bal’am. Ibn ‘Abbas  said about him, “He knew the greatest name of Allah” (Tafsir Ibn Abi Hatim), which indicates a high level of knowledge. Some of the Salaf said, “His du’a would be answered, he would lead them in prayer during hardships, and he was from the scholars of Bani Israil” (Reported by Ibn Abi Hatim from Malik Ibn Dinar). Despite all this, when he deviated from the path and turned away from the clear truth, he was likened to a dog! Allah  said, “Recite to them the news of him to whom we gave [knowledge of] Our signs, but he retreated therefrom; so Shaytan pursued him, and he became of the deviators. And if We had willed, we could have elevated him thereby, but he adhered [instead] to the earth and followed his own desire. So his example is like that of the dog: if you chase him, he pants, or if you leave him, he [still] pants” (Al- A’raf 175-176). Bal’am’s retreat from Allah’s signs occurred when Musa  arrived at the Jabbarin city, and Bal’am’s people and paternal cousins came to Bal’am and said, “Indeed, Musa is a new man here, with many soldiers accompanying him. If he defeats us, he will destroy us, so ask Allah to turn Musa and his companions back from us.” He said, “Indeed, if I were to ask Allah to turn Musa and his companions back, my dunya and my akhirah would be lost.” But they did not cease trying to persuade him until he eventually made du’a against Musa and his companions and thus abandoned his former condition of good (Reported by Ibn Abi Hatim from Ibn ‘Abbas). Malik Ibn Dinar  also said, “Musa  had sent Bal’am to the king of Madyan to call him to Allah, but the king granted him land and gave him gifts, so he followed the king’s religion and abandoned Musa’s” (Tafsir Ibn Abi Hatim). In this way, Bal’am “adhered to the earth and followed his own desire.” He was attached to the dunya and its pleasures, turning away from the ayat of Allah, until his desires overcame him, leaving him like a dog, always panting. Mujahid  said, “This example refers to the one who reads the Book and does not act in accordance with its contents” (Tafsir at- Tabari). Al-Qurtubi said, “This example, according to the statements of many scholars of tafsir, is general and encompasses anyone who was given the Quran but did not act in accordance with it” (Tafsir al-Qurtubi). And how many they are in our era! Conclusion These are some of the traits of the evil “scholars,” which have been made clear by Allah in order to expose the deceivers and remind His slaves to avoid them and neither listen to them nor take from them. We find that He  mentioned their description and did not call them “scholars,” despite their knowledge of Allah’s laws. Rather, as they had lost fear of Allah and left off acting in accordance with what they knew, their knowledge did not benefit them and instead became a reason for them to be cursed in the Dunya and the Akhirah, to be described with the ugliest of traits, and to be thrown into Hellfire. Indeed, Allah has even made following these “scholars” in their kufr to be an act of major shirk, which takes one out of the religion. He  said, “They have taken their rabbis and monks as lords besides Allah, and [also] the Masih, the son of Maryam. And they were not commanded except to worship one god; there is no god except Him. Exalted is He above whatever they associate with Him” (At-Tawbah 31). Thus, one is not excused for kufr he falls into as a result of blindly following the “scholars” of the tawaghit, who are the heirs of the accursed Jewish rabbis. Rather, the obligation on every individual is to strive in seeking the truth and acting in accordance with it. And all praise is due to Allah, Lord of the creation.