‘Abdullah Ibn Yasin The Reviver of the Shari’ah in the Lands of the Sahara From the established ways of Allah  concerning His creation is that whenever people stray from the right path, He sends someone to them who will revive the matter of their religion. Some of the people will obey him, but most of them will oppose him. The muwahhidin will show their rejection of whoever opposes the methodology of Allah  and they will fight them with the sword until Allah makes His religion manifest, so that religion – in its entirety – shall be His. From amongst these revivers was the caller, the scholar, the mujahid ‘Abdullah Ibn Yasin . His story began when Yahya Ibn Ibrahim, the shaykh of the Kadalah tribe, which resided in the Maghrib desert, took him to teach his people about the Shari’ah of Allah and His hudud. He was a good man who loved the religion, and he had been in search of someone who would go with him to call his people, but many of the du’at refused to go with him to the desert due to the hardship it entailed, except for the teacher and mujahid – ‘Abdullah Ibn Yasin – who accepted the mission and sought Allah’s aid to complete it. As-Salawi said, “One of their men undertook the assignment. He was called ‘Abdullah Ibn Yasin al-Juzuli. Participating in several sciences, he was a clever student and possessed merit, religiosity, piety, and good politics” (Al-Istiqsa). And so, Ibn Yasin endured remoteness and traveled into the heart of the Sahara, carrying the religion to a people who had strayed from it. When ‘Abdullah Ibn Yasin arrived at the camping grounds of the Lamtunah tribe, and they asked him what he had brought to them, he told them about the Shari’ah of Islam, which he had come to teach to them and whose hudud he had come to apply. Ibnul-Athir said, “They said, ‘Recall for us the Shari’ah of Islam.’ So he taught them the creed and obligations of Islam. They said, ‘As for what you mentioned of prayer and zakah, then this is close [to what we accept]. As for your saying that whoever kills is to be killed, whoever steals is to [have his hand] cut off, and whoever fornicates is to be lashed or stoned to death, then this is something by which we will not abide. Go to someone else.’ So both of them left” (Al-Kamil fit-Tarikh). And thus, this apostate tribe initially resisted abiding by the Shari’ah and Ibn Yasin refused to remain with them as long as they did not accept the Shari’ah in its entirety. Ibn Yasin pressed on to the tribe of Kadalah in the company of its shaykh. Ibnul-Athir said, “So ‘Abdullah Ibn Yasin called them and those tribes neighboring them to the rule of Shari’ah. Some of them obeyed, while others abstained and disobeyed.” When the tribe lost patience with abiding by the Shari’ah, refusing to submit to it, they compelled him to leave them. Since Ibn Yasin had no power, at that time, to wage war against them, he resolved to go to the Sudan for the sake of da’wah. However, the Shaykh of Kadalah advised him to stay in a famous school near the Senegal River. Ibn Khaldun said, “They isolated themselves from the people at a hill near a river basin, one which is shallow in the summer and abundant in the winter, causing the appearance of various islands. They entered the forests on the islands and secluded themselves for worship” (Tarikh Ibn Khaldun). From Da’wah to Jihad Allah willed that this caller to Islam would be a good seed from which an Islamic emirate would grow. Ibn Khaldun said, “All those who had a grain’s weight of good in their hearts began speaking about them. People began coming to them and entering into their religion and their forest home. Once their number reached a thousand men, their shaykh, ‘Abdullah Ibn Yasin, said to them, ‘A thousand will not be defeated due to small numbers, and establishing the truth, calling to it, and holding everyone to account for it has become obligatory on each of us. So let us go forth for this cause.’ They then went out and killed whoever opposed them from the Lamtunah and Kadalah tribes.” Ibn Yasin thus went forth as a mujahid for Allah’s cause, fighting against the apostate tribes forcefully resisting the Shari’ah. Ibnul-Athir related this, saying, “Ibn Yasin then said to those who obeyed him, ‘It is obligatory upon you to fight those who opposed the truth, denied the Shari’ah of Islam, and prepared to fight you. So raise for yourselves a banner, and put forward an amir to lead you.’” And with that small believing group, the Murabitin subdued the desert to the rule of Allah . As-Salawi said, “He began raiding the different tribes until he conquered all of the lands of the Sahara and crushed its tribes… His authority became known in all of the lands of the Sahara and, from those that neighbored it, of the Sudan, the Kabyle, the Masmuda, and the rest of the Maghrib, and [the news spread] that there arose a man in Kadalah, calling to Allah  and to the straight path, and ruling by what Allah had revealed, and that he was humble and had zuhd towards the Dunya. His reputation soared throughout the lands, and his impression made its way into the people’s hearts until they loved him.” Just as he sought to please Allah by displeasing the people at the beginning of his mission, Allah caused the people to be pleased with him thereafter. They loved him and entered under his obedience. Ruling by the Shari’ah When the Shaykh of Kadalah passed away, Ibn Yasin presented the leader of the Lamtunah tribe to take over as the military leader. As-Salawi said, “‘Abdullah Ibn Yasin gathered the heads of the Sanhaja tribes and appointed Yahya Ibn ‘Umar al-Lamtuni over them, while ‘Abdullah Ibn Yasin was the amir… Yahya Ibn ‘Umar was tasked with managing the affairs of war, while ‘Abdullah Ibn Yasin oversaw affairs pertaining to religion, ruling by the Shari’ah, and collecting zakah and jizyah.” The Murabitin continued, behind their new military amir and under the direction of their faqih, ‘Abdullah Ibn Yasin, to renew the religion for the people. In the year 446AH, as al-Bakri mentions, Ibn Yasin raided Aoudaghost (in southern Mauritania today), which was the seat of the King of Ghana before he entered into Islam. Al-Bakri said, “‘Abdullah Ibn Yasin killed a man there, who was from the mixed Arabs of Kairouan and who was known for piety, righteousness, Quran recitation, and performing Hajj, and his name was Zabaqirah. The reason the Murabitin attacked them was because these mixed Arabs backed the authority and rule of the [pagan] leader of Ghana” (Al-Masalik wal-Mamalik). In the year 447AH, the Murabitin entered Sijilmasa (in southern Morocco today), and stopped all wrongdoing therein. As-Salawi said, “[‘Abdullah Ibn Yasin] changed whatever vices he found therein. He destroyed flutes and musical instruments. He burned taverns in which wines were sold. He annulled taxes and toppled the taxing offices. He effaced whatever the Book and the Sunnah obligated to be effaced. And he appointed someone from Lamtunah over Sijilmasa and left for the desert.” At the end of the year 447AH, the amir Yahya Ibn ‘Umar al-Lamtuni was killed. So Shaykh Ibn Yasin appointed Yahya’s brother Abu Bakr Ibn ‘Umar to take over Yahya’s duties in Muharram of 448AH. Abu Bakr continued waging jihad for Allah’s cause under the faqih’s command like his brother Yahya before. As-Salawi said, “The Murabitin entered the city of Aghmat (east of Marrakesh) in the year 449AH. ‘Abdullah Ibn Yasin and his troops rested there for two months. He then went to Tadla and conquered it, killing anyone he found therein from its royal family, Bani Yafran. He captured Luqut al-Maghrawi [the local amir] and killed him… ‘Abdullah Ibn Yasin then headed for the lands of Tamesna and conquered it, seizing authority over it.” Ibn Yasin  would treat the apostate enemies of Allah harshly, killing and enslaving them, until news of this reached the one who sent him, the faqih who was ignorant of the reality of waging jihad. Adh-Dhahabi said, “The news of what ‘Abdullah Ibn Yasin was doing reached the faqih, who considered it a grave matter and regretted sending him. He wrote to him, criticizing the great amount of killing and enslavement done. So he replied to him: ‘Regarding your disapproval of what I have done and your regret for sending me, then you sent me to a nation engulfed in jahiliyyah. One of them would send his son and daughter out to graze livestock and the daughter would come back pregnant from her brother, and they would not disapprove of that! Their only concern was to make raids against one another and kill each other. So I did what I did, and I did not transgress the rule of Allah. Salam’” (Tarikh al-Islam). Such was the reply from Ibn Yasin to someone who only theorized for him the waging of jihad, while being far from its reality and believing the news people reported to him. After all of these conquests, the resolve of the Murabitin was directed by their shaykh and faqih towards attacking the apostate tribes of Barghawata. As-Salawi said, “It was said to him that the Barghawata were many tribes and assorted people who came together and accepted Salih Ibn Tarif the false prophet, and that they continued on this deviance and kufr. When ‘Abdullah Ibn Yasin heard of the Barghawata’s condition and the kufr that they were following, he considered it an obligation to give precedence to waging jihad against them over others, so he marched against them with the armies of the Murabitin.” It was the qadar of Allah that Ibn Yasin was wounded at the peak of battling these kuffar, attaining shahadah in the year 451AH. The author of “Al-Ightibat” wrote about him, saying, “He subdued the Maghrib until it followed the teachings of Islam, after it had almost completely lost them.” The Testament of Ibn Yasin As-Salawi said, “When death approached him, he said to them, ‘O Murabitin, indeed, I will die today. And you are in the lands of your enemy. So beware of showing cowardice or disputing, lest you falter and your power leaves. Be supporters of the truth and brothers for the sake of Allah. Beware of envying one another concerning leadership, for indeed, Allah gives His dominion to whomever He wills of His creation, and He gives succession on His earth to whomever He wants of His slaves.” Ibn Yasin passed away after building the core of an Islamic emirate, which started at the Senegal River in the south up to the environs of Marrakesh in the north, and then expanded to reach Andalus on the borders of France in the north at the hands of his student, Yusuf Ibn Tashfin, as well as into the depths of the African jungles to the south at the hands of his student, Abu Bakr Ibn ‘Umar. He passed away after leaving a generation of mujahidin to complete the journey, after he had established the Shari’ah of Islam by them and with them. May Allah have mercy upon Ibn Yasin, and may He bless the soldiers of the Khilafah today, those who fight every murtadd who resists ruling by the Shari’ah, those who will continue doing so, inshaallah, regardless of how many sacrifices they make, until the religion is entirely for Allah. Abu Bakr al-Lamtuni A Leader Who Spread Islam in the Lands of the Sudan In the previous section, we showed some of the efforts of the mujaddid faqih, ‘Abdullah Ibn Yasin, in forming the mujahid Murabit emirate. This was the man who, aside from establishing the emirate itself, brought up a generation to carry the banner after him. They included Yusuf Ibn Tashfin, who directed the Muslim armies northward across the sea into Andalus, where they defeated the Crusaders. And they also included the victorious leader, Abu Bakr Ibn ‘Umar, who crossed the desert sands to convey Islam and the rule of Shari’ah to Africa. That which truly distinguishes this man, Abu Bakr, is his sacrifice of everything to serve his religion and his ummah and in order to keep it united and supreme. Ibn ‘Umar was not one of those many who have claimed to be part of this Ummah in the past and present but strive instead to serve themselves and their own interests at the expense of the Ummah and its unity. The New Military Leader The march of this son and amir of Lamtunah began as he was a student of Ibn Yasin, then as a military leader of Ibn Yasin’s armies. In Muharram of the year 448AH, Abu Bakr Ibn ‘Umar assumed the military leadership of the Murabitin, succeeding his brother Yahya Ibn ‘Umar, and remained under the supervision of the faqih, Ibn Yasin, for the course of the jihad. Fighting the Rafidi Bajaliyyah In the same year (448AH), Abu Bakr Ibn ‘Umar raided Sous region, and in the year 449AH, he conquered Massa and Taroudannt. These cities were strongholds of the Rafidah in the Maghrib. As-Salawi said, “Residing there were a Rafidi people called the Bajaliyyah, which is in attribution to ‘Ali Ibn ‘Abdillah al-Bajali, the Rafidi… ‘Abdullah Ibn Yasin and Abu Bakr Ibn ‘Umar fought them until they conquered the city of Taroudannt by force, killing many of those therein. Those who remained of them returned to following the Sunnah and the Jama’ah.” The Successor of Shaykh Ibn Yasin Completes His Journey After eradicating the Rafidah, Ibn ‘Umar marched with his shaykh Ibn Yasin to fight against the Barghawata apostates. In the course of this war, ‘Abdullah Ibn Yasin was wounded and attained his shahadah, as we consider him. The full leadership of the Murabitin then fell to Abu Bakr Ibn ‘Umar. As-Salawi said, “The first thing he did after preparing and burying [Ibn Yasin] was to march on Barghawata, resolving to continue the war, and relying on Allah in waging jihad against them. He was severe in killing and enslaving them until they dispersed, going into hiding and into the jungles. He uprooted them, while the rest embraced Islam anew. Abu Bakr Ibn ‘Umar destroyed any trace of their call from the Maghrib, collecting their ghanaim and distributing it among the Murabitin. He then returned to the city of Aghmat.” This was another victory to be added to a series of victories achieved by Ibn ‘Umar in his war against the people of deviance and for the spread of tawhid. With that, the Dunya opened its arms to Abu Bakr Ibn ‘Umar, who had become the sole leader of the Murabitin. Abu Bakr Ibn ‘Umar Leaves the Maghrib for the Sahara However, the situation did not remain undisturbed for Ibn ‘Umar in leading his people in the conquered lands of the Maghrib. After he achieved all of these victories, troubling news came to him. As-Salawi said, “Then a messenger arrived from the lands of the Kabyle, informing him of disorder in the desert and disputation between its people.” Here, this leader was put at a crossroads. Should he send one of his cousins to resolve the dispute? Should he go himself? If he were to go himself, would he relinquish command over his people in the Maghrib after all of his victories therein? This is where the best qualities of men showed themselves. As-Salawi said, “The amir, Abu Bakr, was a pious man, so it was horrendous to him that Muslims might kill one another while he was capable of stopping them from doing so. He found no other option, as he was appointed over them and responsible for them, than to go into the Sahara and mend the matter and uphold the course of jihad therein.” So he left everything for Allah’s sake alone. The Amir Unites the People to Fight the Mushrikin The Murabit amir journeyed into the Sahara to fix the situation and pave the way for Islamic rule therein. He then went to the Sudan as a mujahid for Allah’s cause and caller unto Him. Ibn Khaldun said, “He reached his people and alleviated the discord that came between them, thus opening the door for waging jihad in the Sudan, thereby seizing around ninety areas of their lands.” So he  did not only reconcile between his people, but he further paved the way for the Muslim armies to raid West Africa and establish the rule of Islam therein. As-Salawi said, “The journey of Abu Bakr Ibn ‘Umar to the desert was in Dhul-Qa’dah of the year 453AH. When he arrived there, he mended its affair, put it in order, and gathered a great army with which he invaded the Sudan and seized around ninety areas thereof.” Abu Bakr Ibn ‘Umar Subdues the Saharan Kuffar As-Salawi mentions elsewhere that Abu Bakr Ibn ‘Umar raided the kingdom of Ghana, spreading Islam to it and its surrounding lands. “In the fifth century, the kingdom of the people of Ghana weakened and their authority dwindled, while that of the masked men neighboring them to the north – next to the Berbers – became serious, so Abu Bakr Ibn ‘Umar al-Lamtuni, the amir, marched to them.” As-Salawi mentions that Abu Bakr Ibn ‘Umar conquered those lands in the course of three months. “And he brought into Islam many of those who had not accepted it before.” Leaving the Maghrib Emirate to Ibn Tashfin To Return to Waging Jihad in the Sudan Historians mention that Abu Bakr Ibn ‘Umar  returned to the Maghrib after his cousin, Yusuf Ibn Tashfin, had become prominent. However, once he saw what his cousin achieved of conquests, he did not remove him from authority. Instead, he relinquished his own authority to him and returned to the Sahara. As-Salawi mentioned the testament of Ibn ‘Umar to Ibn Tashfin, saying, “Abu Bakr then said, ‘Indeed, I had appointed you to this command while I was responsible for it, so fear Allah  regarding the Muslims, saving me and yourself from Hellfire. And do not let anything from the affairs of your subjects be lost, for you are responsible for that.’” Al-Lamtuni: Shahid in the Sudan After Ibn ‘Umar appointed his cousin, he returned to the Sahara to wage jihad against the kuffar in Africa. As-Salawi said, “So he remained there, persisting upon waging jihad against the kuffar of the Sudan, until he achieved shahadah by a poisoned arrow that struck him in Sha’ban of the year 480AH, after he had taken authority over the entire desert up to the Dhahab mountains of the Sudan.” Thus ends the story of one of the knights of Islam. He abandoned the pleasures of the Dunya and leadership, so Allah replaced it for him with something better, as we consider him, and Allah is his judge. Ibn Kathir said, “He achieved respect in the hearts of his subjects like no other king was able to achieve. If he went out to fight an enemy, 500,000 fighters obedient to him would ride out along with him. Aside from this, he would also apply the hudud, safeguard the sanctities of Islam, protect the religion, and deal with people based upon the Shari’ah, while having a sound creed and faith, and being loyal to the ‘Abbasi state.” May Allah have mercy upon the shaykh, mujahid, and shahid Abu Bakr al-Lamtuni. And may He accept him, his da’wah, and his jihad. And may He support his grandsons from the soldiers of the Khilafah in West and North Africa and in the Sahara, those who strive to establish the religion of Allah and remove all traces of shirk in those regions. And may He grant them victory and consolidation. Amin.