As the leaders of the Sahwah factions were heading to Astana, the capital of Kazakhstan, to meet with the representatives of the Nusayri regime in order to strengthen the ceasefire between them and the Nusayri army, under Russian Crusader patronage, their murtadd fighters were continuing their attacks on the city of Bab with the support and backing of the Russian Crusaders, allies of the Sahwat’s main taghut, Erdogan. But the sad state of the murtadd Sahwat doesn’t end there, as anyone who followed the statements of their leaders in recent days would have found them speaking about the Russians as if they were speaking about friends, not about Crusader Russia – the ally of the regime – which killed thousands of helpless people, destroyed cities and villages, and aided the Nusayri army in retaking the city of Halab and expelling them from it. But today, among them is he who calls them a “peacemaker,” hoping to ally with them to fight the Islamic State. This friendship between the murtadd Sahwat of Sham (and behind them, their taghut, Erdogan) and the Russian Crusaders comes after years of the murtaddin allying with America, which has killed countless Muslims, aided the tawaghit against them, and protected the Jewish state occupying the lands of the Muslims. But when they lost hope in America, it wasn’t difficult for them to replace it with Russia. In fact, there’s nothing to even prevent them from befriending the Jewish state itself over the course of a few days as long as wala and bara remains utterly broken within them. So there’s nothing easier for them than allying with the Jews, the Christians, and the mushrikin and taking charge of their efforts against the believers from Ahlus-Sunnah, either due to their fear of the mushrikin or their desire to obtain some benefits which they hope to acquire from them. The murtadd Sahwat of Sham justify their new bond with the Russian Crusaders – as well as the possibility of them coming under their banner and the banner of the Nusayri regime directed to fight the Islamic State – with the claim that it’s for the sake of weakening Iranian influence in Sham and to push the Nusayri regime to have no need for the Rafidi militias, as the Sahwat would take their place in fighting the “terrorist” groups, by which they’re referring primarily to the Islamic State. They are thereby repeating exactly what their brothers – the Sahwat of Iraq – used to say years ago in order to justify joining under America’s banner. They claimed that they wanted to be an alternative to the Rafidi militias, which American forces depended on in their war against the mujahidin, and that their standing alongside America – whom they had fought for years – in order to confront their common enemy, the Islamic State, would push America to fulfill its promise of handing the rule of the land over to them after they withdraw from Iraq, which would occur as soon as they’d eliminated the Islamic State. And of course, America didn’t fulfill any of its promises, and their fate was that they were wiped out at the hands of the Rafidi militias, which donned the uniforms of the police and the military after the Sahwat had spared them the hardship of having to fight the Islamic State and left them to take Iraq as easy ghanimah. But Allah was kind to the Muslims and the Islamic State returned in a number of years, afflicting the Rafidah and their brothers – the Sahwat – with the worst of torment, and rescuing – by Allah’s grace – the lands and the people under their control. And indeed, Allah c has clarified the condition of these claimants to iman, for in every era and every land they hasten to ally with the kuffar due to their fear of being harmed by them and out of their desire to benefit from them. They thereby apostatize from the religion of Allah c in multitudes, so Allah c replaces them with His pure slaves, those who take Allah, His Messenger, and the believers as allies, and who are the party of Allah c, the only ones for whom He decreed victory, conquest, and consolidation, as He c said, “O you who have believed, do not take the Jews and the Christians as allies. They are [in fact] allies of one another. And whoever is an ally to them among you - then indeed, he is [one] of them. Indeed, Allah guides not the wrongdoing people. So you see those in whose hearts is disease hastening into [association with] them, saying, ‘We fear that a calamity may strike us.’ But perhaps Allah will bring conquest or a decision from Him, and they will become, over what they have been concealing within themselves, regretful. And those who believe will say, ‘Are these the ones who swore by Allah their strongest oaths that indeed they were with you?’ Their deeds have become worthless, and they have become losers. O you who have believed, whoever of you should revert from his religion - Allah will bring forth [in place of them] a people He will love and who will love Him [who are] humble toward the believers, powerful against the disbelievers; they strive in the cause of Allah and do not fear the blame of a critic. That is the favor of Allah; He bestows it upon whom He wills. And Allah is all-Encompassing and Knowing. Your ally is none but Allah and His Messenger and those who have believed - those who establish prayer and give zakah, and they bow [in worship]. And whoever is an ally of Allah and His Messenger and those who have believed - indeed, the party of Allah, they will be the ones who prevail” (Al-Maidah 51-56).