The mushrikin of the People of the Book and their apostate agents and allies will not cease to spread lies about the heavily inflated number of Islamic State soldiers whom they claim to have killed in battles or in airstrikes. Their goal in that regards is to fill the mujahidin with despair by terrifying them with the threat of a large number of losses in their ranks if they continue in their fight and jihad against the mushrikin and their insistence on removing shirk and establishing the religion. This is the habit of the kuffar in every era, and that is because they measure all affairs based on material, dunya-oriented results, which is all that they know. This is just the same as what was previously done by one of their leaders following the Battle of Uhud, when he boasted about killing the companions of Allah’s Messenger g, seeking therewith to fill the remaining Muslims with sorrow. But they replied to him saying that they were not eaqual, for those killed from among the Muslims were in Jannah, and those killed from among the mushrikin were in Hellfire. And Allah’s c command has come to His muwahhid slaves in every era that their wounds must not stop them from increasing their pursuit of the mushrikin and their endeavor to fight them, kill them, and seize their land and wealth, as in His c statement, “And do not weaken in pursuing the enemy. If you should be suffering - so are they suffering as you are suffering, but you expect from Allah that which they expect not. And Allah is ever Knowing and Wise” (An-Nisa 104). So war is not only conquest and ghanimah. Rather, it includes wounds, pain, weariness, fatigue, the exhaustion of men and equipment, and the depletion of wealth and resources. But with everything they sacrifice for the cause of Allah, the muwahhidin hope to attain nearness to Him c, and to draw more of the victory which He grants to His slaves when He sees the truthfulness of their jihad. And even as they seek victory against their enemies, they know with certainty that there is even greater reward for them if they are defeated in war after having purified their intentions and exerted their efforts, as the Prophet g said, “No fighter or detachment carries out a raid, takes ghanimah, and returns safely except that they have received two thirds of their rewards, and no fighter or detachment fails to acquire ghanimah and is afflicted except that their rewards will be given in full” (Reported by Muslim). So after every defeat, they make more sacrifices for the sake of pleasing the Lord of the heavens and the earth, until the religion becomes entirely for Allah or they perish in the process, just as their Lord c described them in His statement, “Those [believers] who responded to Allah and the Messenger after injury had struck them. For those who did good among them and feared Allah is a great reward” (Al ‘Imran 172). Alternatively, we find the patrons of the taghut having no hope for any of that. So what they expend in their battles becomes nothing other than a source of regret for them, and with every defeat they suffer at the hands of the muwahhidin, their spirit is even more broken, and with every loss they suffer in wealth and in personnel, their drive to continue fighting is further weakened, until eventually they are broken and suffer a turn for the worst. For this reason, Allah commanded His slaves not to hold back from them and reminded them of the effect that defeat has on them, and that their final outcome will be nothing other than Allah destroying them. And we have seen this being confirmed many times throughout the history of this blessed jihad, which has not stopped since Allah’s Messenger g and his noble companions commenced it. Makkah and the Arabian Peninsula yielded to the Muslims in a number of years, and they eliminated Khosrau’s empire after engaging the Persian pagans in long battles, during the course of which the Muslims suffered what they did of injuries, until eventually Allah brought down Khosrau’s throne. They then dealt with the Roman state, which the Muslims continued to attack for several centuries, until Allah permitted that it be eliminated and that its traces be wiped out. Then, there was what the Muslims did with many of the tawaghit and the nations of kufr, which the Muslims did not tire of fighting against, until Allah eventually permitted their defeat and there remained for the Muslims their religion and their lands. And likewise is what we see today in these current rounds of the mujahidin’s war with all the nations of shirk and kufr – at the head of which are the Crusader nations of the West – specifically over the past two decades, for the banner was clear, and the goal was sincere. Thus, the affair of the muwahhidin continued – by Allah’s grace – to rise and to flourish. Allah increased them in numbers, weapons, and wealth, granted them consolidation on His earth, and supported them in establishing His religion and reviving the jama’ah of the Muslims, which is led today by Amirul- Muminin Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi . The affair of the mushrikin, meanwhile, continues to decline and deteriorate, and this is through Allah c keeping the mujahidin steadfast in waging jihad against them, and through His defeat of the kuffar and murtaddin, until Allah eventually breaks them just as He broke those before them. “That is because Allah is the protector of those who have believed and because the disbelievers have no protector” (Muhammad 11).