With every act of the mujahidin that harms the mushrikin, the people of kufr and deviance come out with their tongues and pens to alter the details and flip the truth. Their aim is to defame and vilify the muwahhidin, showing them as corrupt sinners who care nothing for the sanctity of life or religion. They weep deceitful tears over a religion in which they have disbelieved and over blood, the likes of which they have shed many times more. Such was the case following the latest attack in Istanbul, in which Islamic State soldiers targeted the mushrikin during one of their parties, celebrating the European “New Year.” As a result, they filled the world with noisy claims that the muwahhidin had spilled inviolable blood and killed those who should be protected. We will shed some light on various aspects of the situation, so that it will be clear for the Muslims and that the criminals will be exposed. We must not submit to the media of the tawaghit concerning what they release of names of the dead and wounded. The evidence, both old and new, is sufficient to establish their deceit in misleading people in this regard. This is like what the tawaghit of Jordan did after the blessed operations in the hotels of ‘Amman, where Crusader gatherings of CIA agents and murtaddin of the Iraqi Sahwat were targeted. The tawaghit of Jordan hid this truth and claimed that the “victims” were only a group of people celebrating a wedding at the hotel – those who could have been collaterally hit by the explosive storm of the istishhadi belts while they targeted the Crusaders and murtaddin. Fitnah Is More Severe than Killing Allah said, “They ask you about the sacred month, about fighting therein. Say, ‘Fighting therein is a great sin, but averting [people] from the cause of Allah, disbelieving in Him and (denying the sanctity of) al-Masjid al-Haram, and expelling its people therefrom are greater sins according to Allah. And fitnah is greater than killing’” (Al-Baqarah 217). Ibn Kathir  commented on the reason this ayah was revealed, saying, “Ibn Mas’ud said that Allah’s Messenger g dispatched a raiding party of seven men led by ‘Abdullah Ibn Jahsh al-Asadi… Ibn Jahsh went into a patch of palms and found there al-Hakam Ibn Kaysan, al-Mughirah Ibn ‘Uthman, ‘Amr Ibn al-Hadrami, and ‘Abdullah Ibnul-Mughirah. Ibnul-Mughirah escaped, but al-Hakam Ibn Kaysan and al-Mughirah were captured, while ‘Amr was killed by Waqid Ibn ‘Abdillah. They seized the first ghanimah taken by the Prophet’s g companions… So the mushrikin made a deceptive allegation, saying, ‘Muhammad claims to be obedient to Allah, but he is the first to shed blood in the sacred month, as he killed our people during Rajab.’ The Muslims responded, saying, ‘We killed them during Jumada,’ and it is said that it was at the very onset of Rajab, meaning the last night of Jumada, and the Muslims sheathed their swords when the month of Rajab started. So Allah rebuked the people of Makkah, revealing, ‘They ask you about the sacred month, about fighting therein. Say, ‘Fighting therein is a great sin,’’ meaning it is not allowed to fight therein, but what you – O mushrikin – have done is a greater sin than fighting in the sacred month, as you have disbelieved in Allah and averted Muhammad g and his companions from His cause. And expelling the people of al-Masjid al-Haram from it – as they expelled Muhammad g – is a greater sin than killing, according to Allah.” It is reported that Allah  has written for ‘Abdullah Ibn Jahsh  and his companions the reward of the mujahid muhajirin for what they did. Ibn Ishaq said, “When it was clear to ‘Abdullah Ibn Jahsh and his companions the good that they did, as revealed in the Quran, they were hopeful of being rewarded. They said, ‘O Messenger of Allah! Should we hope to receive, for a raid we waged, the reward of mujahid muhajrin?’ So Allah  revealed, ‘Indeed, those who believed and those who emigrated and fought in the cause of Allah – those can expect the mercy of Allah. And Allah is Forgiving and Merciful’ (Al-Baqarah 218), greatly raising their hopes thereof ” (As-Sirah). The Truth of the Tawaghits and Their Allies’ “Respect” for Blood and Sanctity Perhaps one who hears how the mushrikin slandered Allah’s Messenger g and his companions, due to their supposed fighting during the sacred months, might assume that the mushrikin were truthful in their honoring these months, in which Allah forbade them from fighting. However, the truth is not so. Their stance on this ruling was closer to mockery than esteem. Whenever they found it difficult to cease fighting for three consecutive months, they resorted to something much greater in sin than fighting: they would change Allah’s ruling and legislate over His religion, invoking what is known as the “nasi” (the postponing of a month). That was in order to permit fighting in one of the sacred months, in which Allah forbade fighting, and then to substitute that by forbidding combat during a month in which fighting is permissible. So they permitted what Allah forbade and forbade what Allah permitted. They would even boast to one another about doing this wicked deed, as their poet said, “Were we not those who delayed for Ma’add months that were halal, making them haram?” Allah c said, “Indeed, the postponing [of the sacred months] is an increase in disbelief by which those who have disbelieved are led further astray. They make it lawful one year and unlawful another year to correspond to the number made unlawful by Allah, so they make lawful what Allah has made unlawful. The evil of their deeds is made pleasing to them, and Allah does not guide the disbelieving people” (At-Tawbah 37). Ibn Kathir  said, “[In Jahiliyyah], a man from Bani Kinanah would come each year in the season (of Hajj), riding a donkey. He would say, ‘O people! I am not at fault nor questioned, and there is no response to what I say! We have forbidden Muharram and have postponed Safar.’ He would then come the next year and say instead, ‘We have forbidden Safar and have postponed Muharram,’ which is His saying, ‘to correspond to the number made unlawful by Allah,’ meaning the four months, ‘so they make lawful what Allah has made unlawful,’ by postponing this sacred month.” Thus, the mushrikin do not honor the rites of Allah, nor His prohibitions, but only play with the religion of Allah and ridicule it, legislating into the religion that which Allah never permitted, and thereby they disbelieve in the whole religion. Then, they try to find ways to slander the Muslims and their religion, finding fault with the most minor of suspicions, and claiming that they themselves are upon the straight path, despite their disbelief in Allah c and their ascribing partners to Him. Such do we find today in the actions of the tawaghit and their slaves, the evil scholars who replace the Shari’ah of Allah, who find fault with the mujahidin fighting against the murtaddin and targeting temples of the mushrikin and places in which their festivals of shirk are celebrated. They misguide the people, telling them that the mujahidin are killing Muslims and others who have covenants of security, that they target masajid, and that they make takfir of sinful Muslims, just like the Khawarij before. But the tawaghit forget that their crimes of disbelieving in Allah and contending with Him in legislation, rule, and worship are absolutely the greatest of all crimes – which include the intentional killing of Muslims and those who have covenants of security, and which they know, with certainty, that the mujahidin are innocent of. Their slaves, the evil scholars and media hirelings, forget that the claims of their masters of honoring Muslim blood and being keen to protect it are utter lies, which are exposed by their prisons and jails, in which Muslims are faced with wicked torture, as well as by the massacres their warplanes commit against the Muslims in the lands of the Islamic State and elsewhere, and by the support they offer to anyone who washes his hands with the blood of Muslims, including the Crusaders, the Jews, the Rafidah, the Hindus, the Buddhists, and others. Unintentional Killing of Some Muslims Is Not “Deeming Their Blood Halal” The lie that mujahidin target Muslims and deem their blood halal is one of the oldest lies, which the people of tawhid have refuted time and again, clarifying their honoring of inviolable blood, yet also warning Muslims from mixing with mushrikin, and especially in places where the mushrikin will likely be attacked – like in their military and security positions, their government buildings, and their places of worship and celebration. So those who disobey Allah’s command to separate themselves from the mushrikin and to make hijrah from their lands, and instead intentionally mix with them, in such a way that the mujahid is unable to distinguish between the Muslim and the mushrik, then such people have brought harm upon themselves and the protection of the mujahidin is exempt from them – and Allah will resurrect them according to their intentions. If it is allowed for the mujahidin to target the mushrikin, even if the latter are using Muslims as human shields against their wills, then how about someone who intentionally chooses to mix with the mushrikin in the places of their debauchery, during one of their days of celebration, to join in on the festivities, and mimic them in what they do and how they do it? Yet he condemns the mujahidin when some harm afflicts him based on an attack, which Allah has allowed for the Muslims and upon which He incited them, meaning the direct killing and harming of the belligerent mushrikin! And in that light, the mujahidin targeted the night club in Istanbul, aiming their attack at the mushrikin, after they had exerted every effort of surveillance, inspection, planning, and execution. It is then irrelevant if someone who might have been considered a Muslim – though certainly sinful and immoral – were killed or injured during the attack. Restaurant or Nightclub? The tawaghit and their slaves felt embarrassed of spreading the news and telling the story of their citizens being killed in a place of shirki celebration, as a “nightclub” is known even by the common people to be a place of sin and immorality, and that its model clientele are kafir men and women and other immoral men and women. As it follows, they found it too difficult to portray those who were killed therein as righteous awliya of Allah or shuhada who are near to Allah – as they have become accustomed to depicting every person killed by the mujahidin. So they came with the game of changing names, which they often use to play with the rules of the Shari’ah. They began calling that place of sin and immorality a “restaurant,” in order to delude people into thinking that the mujahidin attacked those therein while they were doing something allowed for them by Allah, of eating and drinking, in a place permitted for them by Allah: a restaurant. The reality is that naming the place, in which the blessed Istanbul attack occurred, a restaurant or a nightclub changes nothing of its ruling, as it was a place in which the mushrikin gathered to celebrate their committing of shirk with Allah. In such a place, it is allowed to target them and attempt killing and wounding them, aside from it being a place of sin and immorality, which Muslims are not allowed to enter. This is just as the soldiers of the Islamic State today, in the east and the west, find no fault with targeting the Rafidi and Isma’ili mushrikin inside their temples, even though they call them “masajid.” That is due to them actually being places of worship for other than Allah, so Muslims must avoid attending such places, staying in them, or even passing through them – let alone performing acts of worship therein, even if doing so was for Allah alone. There is a clear prohibition for Muslims against worshiping Allah in a way that is like the worship of others, like facing fire while praying to avoid being like the Majus in their prayer, or praying at the exact moment of sunrise or sunset to avoid being like the Sabian mushrikin in their times of prayer, or slaughtering animals for Allah in places where the mushrikin sacrifice to their idols. Even if those who are considered Muslims were killed during the attacks on such temples – collaterally, not intentionally – due to being in their vicinity, such does not restrict targeting those temples of shirk. But rather, Muslims must avoid those places, and even especially after the mujahidin have issued their warnings. So how then about one who is present in a place of sin and immorality, amid a gathering of mushrikin, on a day of celebrating their kufr?! The Ruling of Those Who Celebrate Mushrik Festivities Ibn Taymiyyah  was asked about a Muslim who prepares food like the Christians do for New Year’s, or other times like the Feast of the Baptism, Christmas, Lentil Thursday (“Holy Thursday”), or the Sabbath of Light (“Holy Saturday”), and about one who sells something to them for their celebrations – is it permissible for Muslims to do so or not? He answered, saying, “All praise is due to Allah. Regarding their celebrations, it is not permissible for Muslims to resemble them in anything: not in their food, their clothing, their bathing, their lighting of candles, the abandoning of one’s work or worship, or otherwise. It not permissible to prepare a meal or give gifts, nor to sell that which assists them in doing any of that, nor to allow children or others to play games specific to these celebrations, nor to dress up [for them]. Overall, Muslims must not give special consideration to [kafir] celebrations at all. Rather, those days of festivity should be – to the Muslims – just like any other day.” “A Muslim’s intentionally giving consideration to one of these days [by doing something special without actually intending to celebrate the occasion itself ] was disliked by groups of the Salaf and the Khalaf. As for his specifically doing anything of what was mentioned above [in celebration of the occasion], then there is no dispute about it amongst the scholars. Rather, some scholars considered that whoever does such things has committed kufr, since doing so involves holding the religious activities of kufr with esteem. Others have said that whoever slaughters a ram on a day of their celebrations, it is as if he slaughtered a pig.” “‘Abdullah Ibn ‘Amr Ibn al-‘As said, ‘Whoever lives in the lands of the non-Arabs, celebrates their New Year’s and festivals, and resembles them until he dies upon such, he will be resurrected with them on the Day of Resurrection.’ More than one of the Salaf said about Allah’s saying, ‘Those who do not bear witness to falsehood’ (Al-Furqan 72), that it refers to the celebrations of the kuffar. If such is the case of merely witnessing them, then what about participating in them by doing that which is specific to them?” “It was reported from the Prophet g that he said, ‘Whoever resembles a people, then he is from them,’ (Reported by Ahmad from Ibn ‘Umar) and in another wording, ‘He is not from us, the one who resembles other than us,’ (Reported by at-Tirmidhi from ‘Abdullah Ibn ‘Amr Ibn al-‘As) and it is a ‘jayyid’ hadith.” “So if this is said of resembling them, even if only in customs, then what about resembling them in something more obvious than that? The majority of imams disliked – whether to the point of tahrim or just that of a lesser degree – eating what was slaughtered for their celebrations or their religious offerings, as they grouped that with what is dedicated to other than Allah or what is sacrificed on an altar. Likewise, they forbade supporting them in their celebrations by giving them gifts or selling things to them [for that occasion]. They said that it is not permissible for the Muslims to sell the Christians anything that benefits their celebration: not meat, not blood, not a garment, not giving them a ride, and not supporting them in anything of their religion. That is because doing so is to give esteem to their shirk and to help them commit kufr. The authorities should forbid the Muslims from doing this, as Allah c said, ‘Assist one another upon duty and piety, and do not assist one another upon sin and transgression’ (Al-Maidah 2).” “Furthermore, just as it is not allowed for the Muslim to help them drink wine, whether by pressing grapes for them or otherwise, then what about helping them uphold their rites of kufr? And if he himself is not allowed to help them do that – then what if he himself is the one doing it?! And Allah knows best” (Majmu’ al-Fatawa). The Istanbul Attack Was a Blessed Operation The attack in Istanbul targeted the mushrikin in a place and time of their celebration. Many mushrikin and murtaddin were killed and wounded therein. Those who ascribed themselves to Islam, who were killed in this attack, brought it upon themselves by committing a deed that put themselves closer to kufr than to Islam, such that their mixing with the mushrikin made it impossible to distinguish between them. As such, their blood was spilled without blame. We ask Allah to give honor and victory to those who conducted the attack, as well as to their brothers, and all praise is due to Allah, the Lord of creation.