Since the beginning of the current jihad in Sham, the Turkish taghut Erdogan has been marketing the idea of an area in which those who are fleeing from Nusayri airstrikes might gather, offering them places of refuge, services, and protection from bombardment. Doing so, the burden of defending this area would be put on the shoulders of the Turkish army and its aircraft, though beneath the shade of America and NATO. However, this idea failed due to a lack of agreement on behalf of America and its allies in NATO, as they even withdrew their advanced “Patriot” air defense missile systems, which would have been able to guard the safe zone from Nusayri planes. Turkey Receives Initial Approval As the intensity increased in the war against the Islamic State – a war waged by the international Crusader coalition and led by America – it became possible for any side to market their personal projects, on the condition that they support the war against the Islamic State. So the taghut Erdogan and his apostate allies in the Sahwah factions raised the “Safe Zone” project again, but with a new concept, that this area would be used as a base to fight against the Islamic State and a new point from which to launch attacks, just as has been done by the Rafidah in Iraq, the Peshmerga in Kurdistan, the PKK in the Jazirah, and the Nusayri regime in both Halab and the southern desert. The mission for this area is to advance from the north of Halab Wilayah to the western (Shami) bank of the Euphrates River, which will be in correspondence with the apostate PKK advance on the river’s eastern bank. So it is no surprise that these two mutually supportive fronts will use similar names for their campaigns, as the Turkish murtaddin and their allies call their mission “Euphrates Shield” and the Kurdish murtaddin and their allies call theirs “Euphrates Wrath.” Under this pretext, Turkey achieved American approval to advance towards Jarabulus and Ra’i in order to reach the city of Bab, even securing air cover for them, along with support and weapons, during many stages of the operation. Then, to overstep the disapproval of the Nusayri regime and its Russian and Iranian allies, the murtadd Turkish government began negotiating with the Russian Crusaders, convincing them to agree to an advance in the northern and eastern countryside of Halab, assuring them that this advance was for the sake of fighting the Islamic State – and that in no way would they affect the Nusaryi regime and its allies, of Rafidah and others. This Project’s Importance to Turkey The taghut Erdogan and members of his apostate government increased in talking about the “Safe Zone,” mentioning its being a means of preventing the establishing of the Kurdish state, to which the secular kafir PKK aspires. As such, Turkey seeks to take control over the area stretching between Jarabulus and ‘Azaz, covering more than 50 km of land, which would prevent the areas ruled by the apostate PKK militants east and west of the Euphrates from joining together. Doing so, the Turkish murtaddin would make this area a barrier to block Islamic State mujahidin from reaching their lands. However, whoever scrutinizes the actual situation on the map and the ongoing political events in both Turkey and Sham will recognize that the importance of this area to the apostate Turkish government far surpasses the issue of destroying the plans of the Kurdish state, despite its importance to them. This is because the Turkish army’s assertion of control over some part of Sham will be a means of great pressure on the Nusayri regime in the future, which will exceed the importance of controlling the many factions of the Sahwah murtaddin – meaning that they will reap many rewards in a future withdrawal, no matter what kind of taghut government is set up in Damascus. Likewise, Turkey’s partial control over this area with Russian or American air cover, would prevent the Nusayri regime from bombarding it. This would help Turkey to eventually rid itself of a large number of undesirable refugees (those who are disruptive or offer little benefit to Turkey) by opening refugee camps for them in this area. Such would also alleviate much of the great costs burdening the declining Turkish economy. That is aside from being able to recruit fighters from these camps to further the future projects of the Turkish army inside Sham. And just as Iran has taken control of the Rafidi militias in the framework of the “Rafidi Mobilization,” using it to achieve its goals, so too has Turkey begun speaking about a “Sahwah Mobilization” to be used for serving its interests in Sham and the rest of the region. The Accepted Safe Zone With every Crusader-observed peace agreement made between the Nusayri regime and the Sahwah murtaddin, the Russians speak of the necessity of isolating the “extremists” from the “moderate opposition,” despite their knowledge of the strong alliance between all of the murtadd Sahwah factions – whether they openly declare secularism or they falsely claim to rule by Shari’ah. This “necessity” comes as Russian bombers target these “extremists” who refuse to (openly) negotiate with the Nusayri regime, unlike the “moderates” who have accepted to do so, entrusting that to the former Nusayri prime minister, the murtadd Riyad Hijab. But such distinction could not happen due to the great mix of these two types of Sahwat, those who accepted the negotiations and those who rejected them, as well as due to the inability of the “moderates” to expel the “others” from amongst them. This was clearly manifested in the city of Halab before its complete fall into the hands of the Nusayri army, which was presented by the taghut Erdogan in a way acceptable to the Sahwah murtaddin. And by doing so, he simultaneously insured the Russian-Nusayri consent for him to build the “Safe Zone,” making it an area for isolating the “moderate” Sahwat from the "extremist" Sahwat. Thereby, the “moderates” could end combat operations against the Nusayri regime, freeing themselves up to fight the Islamic State alone, as they would be safe from Nusayri and Russian bombing as long as they adhered to this decree. The Russian-Turkish Project After finalizing the Sahwah factions’ surrender of Halab city to the Nusayri regime, which was based on an agreement made between Russia and Turkey, a new Russian-Turkish project was developed to spread the “Halab experiment” to the rest of the lands in Sham under Sahwah control. This was based on a peace agreement between the Sahwat and the Nusayri regime, comprised of three main points: First, a ceasefire between both sides in all areas of Sham. Second, the setting up of a joint government, including both the Nusayri regime and the murtaddin of the Sahwat’s armed factions and the political opposition, on the basis of being secular, democratic, and representative of its members, while the greater power will again be for the Nusayriyyah, as work will be made to integrate the Sahwah fighters into the Nusayri army. Third, all combat will be eventually only directed against the Islamic State. As such, the “Safe Zone” area will be the first to officially implement the ceasefire, while it has practically been implemented there for several months (since the onset of the Turkish operation “Euphrates Shield”). It will be a haven for all factions and groups that enter into the Russian-Turkish project’s framework, and they will begin moving there with their weapons, equipment, families, and bases. At that, those apostate factions outside of the peace agreement with the Nusayri regime will remain in their own haven, Idlib, where Russian and Nusayri planes will continue to bombard them from above, while the Rafidi militias will choke them on the ground. There will be no escape from that hellish situation, except for one who surrenders himself to and joins the Nusayri army or one who officially crosses Turkey’s borders to be transported to the “Safe Zone,” where he will join the “moderate” Sahwah army to fight the Islamic State, far from any frontline against the Nusayri army. This project will continue until the Nusayri army completely controls the areas of Idlib, the coastal region, and the northern countryside of Hamah, after they are emptied of those murtadd Sahwah fighters coming from parts of Hims, Dimashq, Qalamun, and possibly even Dar’a. Regardless, each murtadd of the Sahwat will accept the peace agreement with the Nusayriyyah by either entering into the ranks of the Nusayri army or by entering into the “moderate” Sahwah army inside the “Safe Zone,” especially once the option to sit back in Turkey is no longer available if the apostate Turkish government moves all of the refugee camps to the “Safe Zone.” In such circumstances, it can be agreed to unite the “Safe Zone” factions with the Nusayri army, whether by forming battalions resembling those of a “people’s army” or by merging them into police positions, since the murtadd opposition will likely have a share in the interior ministry of the joint government. Doing either will move the complete effort of all parties to fighting the Islamic State. In the Steps of the Iraqi Sahwat At the first sign of the Sahwat emerging in Sham, the Islamic State warned the murtaddin that they would take the same path – walking shoulder to shoulder – as their brothers in the Sahwat of Iraq, and that they would meet the same black end as their predecessors before them. For the Islamic State will not leave them alone, nor will the Crusaders and the tawaghit fulfill the promises they made to them, and nor will the Nusayriyyah and the Rafidah give them what they want. Rather, the soldiers of the Khilafah will continue to cut their throats and the Rafidah and Nusayriyyah will work to dismantle them, weaken them, and subdue them. Whoever is insubordinate, the Rafidah and Nusayriyyah will find no difficulty in opening his old records or prosecuting him with new charges. The Crusaders and the tawaghit will abandon them as soon as they no longer need them. None of them will be safe, except those who become refugees in a neighboring country, as it happened with the murtaddin of the Iraqi Sahwah leaders. Indeed, the Sahwat will end and the Islamic State will – by Allah’s permission – return to all of the areas from which it withdrew in the north of Sham. Then legions of its soldiers will enter the land of Turkey, making therein new wilayat in which the Shari’ah of Allah will be established and the idols of Ataturk, democracy, secularism, Sufism, and the Murtadd Brotherhood will be removed. And none of that is difficult for Allah.