There’s no doubt that with the return of the Khilafah, the establishment of the Islamic State, and the revival of the laws of the Shari’ah that were abandoned and the rulings that were concealed, the minds of many women became enlightened and were illuminated by our noble shari’ah. Thus, the female slaves of Allah in the Islamic State became more knowledgeable of the affairs of the religion and of that which the Lord of creation had obligated upon them, particularly with respect to ‘aqidah and tawhid, both of which were polluted in the lands of shirk. The Most Firm Handhold of Iman Know, O bondwoman of Allah, that Islam is to surrender to Allah through Tawhid, to submit to Him through obedience, and to disavow shirk and its people. Wala and bara are two of the principles of Islam according to ijma’ (consensus), and they are from the testimony of “La ilaha illallah.” A Muslim is not called a Muslim until he disavows kufr and its people, even if they are his closest relatives. A woman may say, “But my wala is to Allah, His Messenger, and the believers, and the greatest evidence of that is that I live in Dar al-Islam and enjoy the blessing of the shari’ah of mankind’s Lord!” So know that having wala for the kuffar is not only through aiding them and supporting them against the Muslims. Rather, simply harboring love and affection for them and approving of them are examples of wala. Concerning love and affection, their place is in the heart, and the heart is the master and shepherd of the limbs. Imam Ahmad reported in his musnad that al-Bara Ibn ‘Azib  said, “We were sitting with the Prophet g when he asked, ‘Which bond of Islam is the strongest?’ They said, ‘The prayer.’ He said, ‘It is good, but it is not it.’ They said, ‘The zakah.’ He said, ‘It is good, but it is not it.’ They said, ‘Fasting Ramadan.’ He said, ‘It is good, but it is not it.’ They said, ‘The hajj.’ He said, ‘It is good, but it is not it.’ They said, ‘Jihad.’ He said, ‘It is good, but it is not it. Indeed, the strongest bond of Islam is to love for the sake of Allah and hate for the sake of Allah.’” Sulayman Al ash-Shaykh  said, “So, can the religion be complete or the banner of jihad and the banner of commanding good and forbidding evil be raised except through loving for the sake of Allah, hating for the sake of Allah, having enmity for the sake of Allah, and allying for the sake of Allah? And if the people were to agree on a single path and on mutual love with no enmity or hatred, there would be no means of dividing between truth and falsehood, nor between the believers and the kuffar, nor between the allies of ar-Rahman and the allies of Shaytan” (Ad-Durar as-Saniyyah). There Has Emerged Between Us and You Enmity and Hatred There is no wala without bara. Yes, you live amongst the muwahhidin and your wala is to Allah, His Messenger, and the believers, but do you disavow yourself of the enemies of Allah and the religion? Perhaps on the list of contacts in your phone there is someone from among your family, relatives, or friends who curses the Islamic State and openly declares their enmity towards its leaders, and perhaps some of your conversations with your relatives contain enmity and hatred for the Khilafah and its soldiers of which Allah is aware, but you’re neither worried nor concerned about that. And among them are those who encourage you to leave Dar al-Islam with the excuse that the war against it has intensified, among other statements of scaremongering and deviance! All this, and you don’t say a single word, and you continue to show them affection instead of showing them anger for the sake of your religion and ‘aqidah. Rather, you show anger – every bit of anger – if your husband prevents you from communicating with the likes of these people, because from your perspective they’re just friends! The Muslims Boycott a Sahabi Because He Remained behind from a Battle Indeed, the Salaf have shown us the best of examples with respect to wala and bara. Here you have Ka’b Ibn Malik  remaining behind from the Battle of Tabuk without a legitimate excuse. So the order of the Prophet g to boycott Ka’b and those who remained behind with him comes to the Muslims as clear as the sun in the middle of the day. In narrating his story – as reported in Sahih al-Bukhari – Ka’b  said, “The Prophet g forbade the Muslims from speaking to the three of us specifically from among those who had remained behind, so we avoided the people, and they changed their attitude towards us to the extent that it was as if the land had changed and was no longer the one I recognized. We remained that way for fifty nights. As for my two companions, they gave up and remained in their homes, weeping, and as for me, I was the youngest and strongest of them, so I would go out and attend the prayer with the Muslims, and I would walk around in the markets and no one would speak to me. I would come to Allah’s Messenger g and give him salam while he was sitting in his gathering after the prayer, and I would say to myself, ‘Did he move his lips responding to my salam or not?’ Then I would pray near him and would steal a glance at him. When I was busy with my prayer he would turn to me, and when I turned towards him he would turn away from me. When the people’s harshness lasted long, I went walking and then scaled the wall of Abu Qatadah, who was my cousin and the most beloved person to me. I gave him salam, but by Allah he did not return the salam. So I said, ‘O Abu Qatadah, I ask you by Allah, do you know that I love Allah and His Messenger?’ But he was silent. So I repeated it to him and asked him by Allah, but he was silent. So I repeated it to him and asked him by Allah, and he said, ‘Allah and His Messenger know best,’ so my eyes filled with tears.” He remained in this state, with the Muslims boycotting him, until Allah turned to him and his brothers in forgiveness. So reflect, O bondwoman of Allah, and look how the Muslims boycotted Ka’b in response to the command of their prophet and out of their allegiance to him! And did Ka’b  do what is done by those who remain behind today? Never! For with respect to those who remain behind today, it isn’t enough for them to sit back and leave off supporting the truth. Rather, if jihad and the mujahidin were to be mentioned in the presence of some of them, they would lash them with sharp tongues! The Religion of Allah Is More Beloved to Them than Their Fathers And how good is ‘Abdullah Ibn ‘Abdillah Ibn Ubayy . His father, the head of the munafiqin, says, “If we return to Madinah, the more honored will surely expel therefrom the more lowly” (Al-Munafiqun 8). The Prophet g then orders them to return, and ‘Abdullah blocks his father’s path, saying, “I will not leave you until you proclaim that you are the lowly one and Muhammad is the honored one.” Yes, it is wala and bara embodied in their most radiant and truthful forms. This is the point of division and separation, at the lines of manhaj and ‘aqidah. There is neither flattery nor inclination when it concerns a matter of religion! As for the Mother of the Believers, Umm Habibah , we learned a lesson in wala and bara the likes of which we rarely see in our times. Az-Zuhri reported, saying, “Abu Sufyan came to Madinah when the Prophet g was intending to raid Makkah, and he spoke to him about increasing the duration of the treaty, but he didn’t turn towards him. So he got up and entered upon his daughter Umm Habibah, and when he went to sit on the mattress of the Prophet g, she folded it before him. So he said, ‘O my daughter, is it that you want to preserve this mattress from me or to preserve me from this mattress?’ She said, ‘Rather, it is the mattress of Allah’s Messenger, and you are a man who is an impure mushrik.’ So he said, ‘O my daughter, evil has indeed afflicted you after [being away from] me’” (Siyar A’lam an-Nubala). The Varying Degrees of Abandoning Someone for the Sake of Allah In conclusion, we do not incite you, O bondwoman of Allah, to abandon your family and relatives except in the case of those whose apostasy has become clear to you through a statement or deed of theirs which takes one out of the religion. This type of individual is to be abandoned and disavowed before Allah with absolutely no alternative, such as one who supports the enemy, even with a single word, or makes du’a for the Islamic State to suffer ruin and loss in its war against its enemies, or wishes for the rule of the Shari’ah to come to an end, and wishes for the establishment of the despicable manmade laws, or commits any other deeds that nullify one’s Islam and invalidates one’s iman. As for those whose deviance doesn’t reach this level, they are to be shunned to a degree that is in accordance with what they have committed of sins. And all praise is due to Allah, the Lord of creation.