As the soldiers of the Khilafah continue waging war on the forces of kufr, we take a glimpse at a number of recent operations conducted by the mujahidin of the Islamic State that have succeeded in expanding the territory of the Khilafah, or terrorizing, massacring, and humiliating the enemies of Allah. These operations are merely a selection of the numerous operations that the Islamic State has conducted on various fronts across many regions over the course of the last few weeks. The War on Turkey On the 7th of Rabi’ al-Akhir, the soldiers of the Khilafah destroyed a Turkish BMP after targeting it with a guided missile near the town of Qabbasin. On the 8th of Rabi’ al-Akhir, the soldiers of the Khilafah carried out an assault on Turkish army and Sahwah positions west of the city of Bab. Light clashes took place and the murtaddin fled, leaving the mujahidin to take control of their positions, following which they returned safely back to base. On the 13th of Rabi’ al-Akhir, the soldiers of the Khilafah destroyed a tank belonging to the murtadd Turkish army after targeting it with a guided missile near the village of Qudayran. On the 26th of Rabi’ al-Akhir, the istishhadi Abu Ahmad al-Hamawi  set out and detonated his explosive vehicle on a Turkish army and Sahwah barracks near Mount Dayr north of the city of Bab, killing and injuring a number of them. Likewise, a tank and two armored troop carriers were destroyed after being targeted with guided missiles near the village of Qabr al-Miqri northeast of Bab. Qawqaz Wilayah On the 30th of Rabi’ al-Awwal, Islamic State covert units launched two attacks on two checkpoints belonging to the murtadd Dagestani police in the city of Khasavyurt, and a third attack on a police patrol unit in the city of Kaspiysk in the middle of Dagestan. They succeeded in killing several murtaddin and in injuring a number of others. Baghdad Wilayah On the 3rd of Rabi’ al-Akhir, the istishhadi Abu Hassan al-‘Iraqi  carried out an attack targeting Rafidi murtaddin in Sadr City towards the east of Baghdad in revenge for the Rafidi-Crusader coalition’s repeated targeting of health institutions in Ninawa Wilayah. He set out and detonated his explosive vehicle on their dens, killing and injuring approximately 150 murtaddin. This was followed by two car bombs being detonated on the wounded Rafidah, one at Jawadir Hospital and the other at Al-Kindy Hospital towards the east of the city, leading to 60 murtaddin being killed and wounded. On the 9th of Rabi’ al-Akhir, the istishhadi Yahya al-‘Iraqi  set out and detonated his explosive vehicle on the gatherings and dens of the Rafidi mushrikin in ‘Ulwah Jamilah towards the east of Baghdad, killing and injuring approximately 80 of them. A second istishhadi attack was carried out by Abu Dujanah al- ‘Iraqi , who entered into the midst of another group of Rafidah and detonated his explosive vest, killing and injuring approximately 45 of them. On the 11th of Rabi’ al-Akhir, following close surveillance of the dens and gatherings of the Rafidi army and Rafidi Mobilization’s officers and leaders inside Al-Kindy College of Medicine in the area of Nahdah towards the east of Baghdad and Dijlah University College in the area of Dawrah towards the south of Baghdad, Islamic State explosive units parked and detonated two car bombs on their gatherings, leading to 70 of them being killed and wounded. Salahuddin Wilayah On the 3rd of Rabi’ al Akhir, a number of Islamic State inghimasiyyin launched an attack on Rafidi army positions in the city of Samarra. Following fierce clashes, they entered a Federal Police base as well as a base belonging to the Salam Detachments militia in the middle of Samarra, and succeeded in killing approximately 100 murtaddin and in injuring dozens more, with an officer ranked lieutenant colonel among those dead. Several of the murtaddin’s vehicles were likewise burned, and parts of the Federal Police building and the Salam Detachments militia’s building were also destroyed. Jordan On the 7th of Rabi’ al-Akhir, an Islamic State covert unit succeeded in assassinating the murtadd Bassam al-Hawrani, an officer ranked first captain in the murtadd Jordanian police. They targeted and killed him on the Ayil road in Ma’an towards the south of Jordan. Raqqah Wilayah On the 8th of Rabi’ al-Akhir, a number of Islamic State soldiers launched a surprise attack on PKK positions in the town of Tall as-Saman and in the village of Khaniz towards the north of Raqqah. Fierce confrontations took place, leading to approximately 30 murtaddin being killed in the town. Another 40 murtaddin were killed when their convoy fell into an ambush as it was heading to the village of Khaniz to reinforce the murtaddin present there. The ambush led to the entire force being wiped out, with a BMP and 5 4-wheel drive vehicles being destroyed. On the 16th of Rabi’ al-Akhir, a group of inghimasiyyin stealthily advanced to the PKK’s rear lines in the village of Suwaydiyyah Saghirah in the wilayah’s western countryside and carried out a surprise attack on the murtaddin. Clashes took place for several hours and were punctuated by an istishhadi operation carried out by Abu ‘Abdillah ash-Shishani , who detonated his explosive vehicle on the murtaddin in the village. The murtaddin then called for support from Crusader warplanes and also called in reinforcements from outside of the village. The istishhadi Abu Khattab ad-Dimashqi  then set out and detonated his explosive vehicle on a large gathering of their fighters and vehicles, leading to a large number of their reinforcements being killed and wounded. The mujahidin also detonated 8 explosive devices on the murtaddin in Suwaydiyyah Saghirah. Meanwhile, groups of inghimasiyyin also stormed the villages of Bir Khuwaym and East Ja’bar located north of Tabaqah and clashed with the murtaddin, killing and injuring several of them. During the course of the confrontations, Crusader coalition warplanes carried out several airstrikes, with 7 of them mistakenly targeting PKK positions, and the mujahidin’s attacks resulted in 100 murtaddin being killed. On the 25th of Rabi’ al-Akhir, the soldiers of the Khilafah surprised the PKK murtaddin with a wide scale attack in the area of Ja’bar and the district of Jarniyyah in the wilayah’s western countryside. The inghimasiyyin set out in groups after midnight and encircled the murtaddin from three axes. The attack began in the villages of ‘Atshanah, U’aywij, and ‘Ali ‘Umar and continued on to the villages of Jaddah and Mahmudali, with all the PKK fighters present in these villages being killed. Another group of inghimasiyyin attacked the village of Tuwayhinah, and from there they set out towards the villages of Abu Sakhrah, and Ja’bar, and towards the Ja’bar castle, with another group of inghimasiyyin also storming the town of Jurniyyah. The attack resulted in the soldiers of the Khilafah taking control of several villages, and also led to dozens of PKK fighters being killed and several others being wounded. On the 27th of Rabi’ al-Akhir, 33 PKK fighters were killed and 16 others were wounded in an assault by the soldiers of the Khilafah on their positions in the villages of Khaniz and Tall as-Saman. Fierce confrontations took place, during the course of which the mujahidin targeted the murtaddin’s positions with more than 125 mortar rounds, following which they returned safely back to their positions. Meanwhile, another group of Islamic State soldiers carried out an assault on two PKK positions near the village of Hayawi in the wilayah’s northern countryside and succeeded in killing 5 murtaddin as they attempted to flee through the desert. They also captured some light weapons and ammo as ghanimah before returning safely back to their positions. Ninawa On the 9th of Rabi’ al-Akhir, a number of Islamic State soldiers launched a fierce attack on Rafidi soldiers and militia fighters on the outskirts of Shuqaq al-Hadba towards the northeast of Mosul. Clashes took place for several hours, during the course of which 31 murtaddin were killed and wounded. This was followed by two istishhadiyyin – Abu Anas al-Maslawi and Abu Bakr al-Maslawi  – detonating their explosive vehicles one after another on the murtaddin. They succeeded in killing approximately 21 of their fighters and in injuring a number of others, in addition to destroying two Humvees and burning a building in which they had been entrenched. Meanwhile, the istishhadi Abu Ahmad ash-Shami  set out and detonated his explosive vehicle on a group of Rafidi soldiers and militia fighters in the neighborhood of Salam towards the south of Mosul. He succeeded in killing 11 murtaddin and in injuring a number of others, in addition to destroying four Humvees as well as a home in which they had been entrenched. Somalia On the 10th of Rabi’ al-Akhir, two members of the murtadd Somali police were killed and a third was wounded in an attack by the soldiers of the Khilafah with hand grenades on a checkpoint near the ‘Ali Sufi crossroad in the city of Mogadishu. West Africa Wilayah On the 10th of Rabi’ al-Akhir, the soldiers of the Khilafah killed 20 African coalition soldiers in an attack on their positions in the town of Buni Yadi in the Yobe region towards the northeast of Nigeria. Khayr Wilayah On the 16th of Rabi’ al-Akhir, multiple groups of inghimasiyyin stealthily advanced to Nusayri positions west of the Khayr military airbase before fajr and succeeded in capturing the area of Sakan al-Muhandisin, which the murtaddin had entrenched themselves in and taken as a first line of defense on the western side of the airbase. The clashes resulted in 5 murtaddin being killed and a number of others being wounded. On the 17th of Rabi’ al-Akhir, the soldiers of the Khilafah continued their advance and laid siege to the military airbase along with four nearby neighborhoods. They thereby cut them off from the rest of the neighborhoods and areas under the control of the Nusayri army and the Rafidi militias towards the northwest of the city. This came following the advance made by the soldiers of the Khilafah west of the airbase, during the course of which they took control of the area of Makabis al-Qarmid and the Juryah residential project, thereby joining together the southwestern neighborhoods and Mount Thardah, which is located west of the city. The new advance also led to the airbase and the surrounding areas controlled by the Nusayri army being cut off from the 137th Brigade base and the city’s northwestern neighborhoods. The soldiers of the Khilafah also took control of Mount ‘Ummal, which overlooks the city and the neighboring cemetery region, as well as the Pullman bus station and several positions in the neighborhood of ‘Ummal towards the southwest of the city. The battles led to at least 40 Nusayri soldiers and Rafidi militia fighters being killed, in addition to the destruction of a 57mm cannon, a tank, and a Shilka. On the 19th of Rabi’ al-Akhir, the istishhadi Abu ‘Ali ash-Shami  set out and detonated his explosive vehicle on a group of murtaddin in the vicinity of the Electricity Company located at the city of Khayr’s mountain. Several of them were killed and a number of others were wounded, and assault units then set out to finish off those who’d survived. Soon afterwards, the mujahidin succeeded in taking control of the company’s building as well as the neighboring region, and also took control of the Nusayri field hospital at the mountain. A total of more than 15 murtaddin were killed and a number of others were wounded in the confrontations. 