The sixth path to victory is through recognizing one’s need for Allah and being humble. Allah c said, “Allah has already given you victory on many fields and on the day of Hunayn, when your great number pleased you, but it did not avail you at all, and the earth was confining for you with its vastness; then you turned back, fleeing” (At-Tawbah 25). Ibn Kathir  said, “Ibn Jurayj narrated that Mujahid said, ‘This is the first ayah revealed of Surat Baraah. Allah mentions His favor upon them and His generosity for them through His supporting them in ‘many fields’ of their battles alongside Allah’s Messenger g; and that was from Him c and by His empowerment and estimation – not by their numbers or equipment – and He reminded them that victory comes from Him alone, whether their numbers are small or many. For on the Day of Hunayn, their numbers impressed them, yet that was of no benefit to them, as they turned and fled except for a few of them with Allah’s Messenger g.’” Allah’s Messenger g said, “Indeed Allah  revealed to me, ‘Be humble’” (Reported by Muslim from ‘Iyad Ibn Himar). Ibnul-Qayyim  said, “So indeed, being in need of Allah with some deficiency is better than being proud with none” (Tariq al-Hijratayn). Muslim reported from Abu Hurayrah  that, “No one was humble to Allah except that He raised him. This raising in the Dunya is through support, victory, and good reputation; and in the Akhirah, it is through high levels and the praiseworthy station.” Ibn Battal  said, “‘Aishah said, ‘Indeed you are heedless of the best act of worship: humility.’ At-Tabari  said, ‘Humility is one of the tests by which Allah tests His believing slaves, to see how they will obey Him therein and because He knows the benefit for His creation in that – of their dunya and their akhirah … Of that is when he g entered Makkah, the people began saying [in praise], ‘He is this and he is that.’ So he slumped upon his camel, saying, ‘Allah is higher and loftier.’’ He then said, ‘Tariq Ibn Shihab narrated that when ‘Umar came to Sham, he reached a ford. So he dismounted his camel and removed his shoes. Grasping them, he then plunged into the water along with his camel. Abu ‘Ubaydah then said to him, ‘Today, you have done a tremendous thing according to the people of the earth.’ So he patted his chest and said, ‘Perhaps if someone else said that, O Abu ‘Ubaydah, but you [Arabs] were the meekest and lowest of people, then Allah honored you with Islam. So whenever you seek honor with other than Him, Allah will humiliate you’’” (Sharh Sahih al-Bukhari). The seventh path to victory is dhikr (remembrance) of Allah. Allah c said, “O you who believe! When you encounter a company [of the enemy], stand firm and remember Allah much that you may be successful” (Al-Anfal 45). At-Tabari said that “remember Allah much” means, “Supplicate Allah for support against them and victory over them. And accustom your hearts and tongues to His remembrance so that you may be successful … Qatadah said, ‘Allah made dhikr an obligation when you are most occupied: during the exchange of clashing swords.’” Al-Qurtubi wrote valuable words when giving the tafsir of this ayah. He said, “The scholars have three opinions about this dhikr. The first is that you must remember Allah when your hearts are worried, for His dhikr assists with steadfastness during hard times. The second is that you must steady your hearts and mention Him with your tongues, for the heart does not settle during the conflict and the tongue may be jumbled. So He ordered remembrance until the heart is firm with certainty and the tongue is firm with dhikr, saying what the companions of Talut said, ‘Our Lord! Pour upon us patience and plant firmly our feet and give us victory over the disbelieving people’ (Al-Baqarah 250). This condition cannot be accomplished except through the strength of knowledge and the ignition of insight, which is the commendable courage of men. The third is that you must remember the promise Allah made to you when you sold your souls, as well as the reward He has for you.” I say that all of these opinions should be considered, as one should mention Allah with his tongue while his heart feels bold, remembering what Allah promised him of support in the Dunya and gardens in the Akhirah. And Allah c said to Musa and Harun, “Do not slacken in My remembrance” (Ta Ha 42). Ibn Kathir  said, “This means they were to not languish in the remembrance of Allah when they faced Fir’awn, that Allah’s dhikr would support and empower them, as well as being a decisive authority against [Fir’awn].” Know that the dhikr of Allah during combat is something secret. Al-Hakim authenticated the report from Abu Musa  that Allah’s Messenger g would dislike raised voices during combat. The eighth path to victory is du’a (supplication). Allah c said, “Say, ‘My Lord would not care for you if not for your supplication’” (Al-Furqan 77), and, “So call upon Him, being sincere to Him in religion” (Ghafir 65), and, “Invoke Him in fear and aspiration. Indeed, the mercy of Allah is near to the doers of good” (Al-A’raf 56), and “Your Lord says, ‘Call upon Me; I will respond to you.’ Indeed, those who disdain My worship will loathingly enter Jahannam” (Ghafir 60), and, “When My servants ask you concerning Me, then indeed I am near. I respond to the invocation of the supplicant when he calls upon Me. So let them respond to Me [with obedience] and believe in Me that they may be rightly guided” (Al-Baqarah 186). Allah’s Messenger g said, “Du’a is ‘ibadah (worship)” (Reported by Ibn Majah, Abu Dawud, and at-Tirmidhi from an-Nu’man Ibn Bashir). Al-Hakim and others reported from Abu Hurayrah , that he g said, “Nothing is more precious to Allah than du’a” (Al-Mustadrak). He also said, “Whoever does not ask of Allah, He is angry with him” (Reported by at-Tirmidhi from Abu Hurayrah). Ibn Taymiyyah  said, “Victory and provision are obtained through various means. The most sure of them is the du’a of the believers.” He also said, “When victory was determined on the Day of Badr, and the Prophet g told his companions that it would come and that the enemy would fall, what led to that was the Prophet g seeking help and making du’a” (Majmu’ al-Fatawa). This is Allah’s Messenger g who, when he saw the multitudes of his enemy and their strength, as well as the scarcity of his companions and their weakness, resorted to the only one in whose Hand victory is held. “Victory is not except from Allah, the Exalted in Might, the Wise” (Al ‘Imran 126). ‘Umar Ibn al-Khattab  said, “On the Day of Badr, Allah’s Messenger g looked at the mushrikin, who were one-thousand, and at his companions, while his companions were three-hundred nineteen men. So the Prophet of Allah g faced the qiblah, then spread out his hands and began calling out to his Lord, ‘O Allah, fulfill what You promised me. O Allah, give me what You promised me. O Allah, if You destroy this small group of Muslims, You will not be worshiped on the earth.’ He would not stop calling out to his Lord with his hands extended, facing the qiblah, until his cloak fell from his shoulders” (Reported by Muslim). He g would make du’a against the mushrikin in general, saying, “O Allah, Revealer of the Book, Swift in Judgment; O Allah, defeat the factions; O Allah, defeat them and shake their foundations” (Reported by al-Bukhari and Muslim from ‘Abdillah Ibn Abi Awfa). He would also specifically mention their individuals and chiefs, as Ibn Mas’ud  narrated, saying, “The Prophet g faced the Ka’bah and made du’a against some members of Quraysh: against Shaybah Ibn Rabi’ah, ‘Utbah Ibn Rabi’ah, al-Walid Ibn ‘Utbah, and Abu Jahl Ibn Hisham. I bear witness, by Allah, that I saw each of them knocked dead on the ground, mutilated by the sun” (Reported by al- Bukhari and Muslim). Know, O ally of Allah, that you are in one of the places where the du’a is answered. Sahl Ibn Sa’d as- Sa’di said, “There are two hours for which the doors of the heavens are opened, and in which scarcely a supplicant’s du’a goes unanswered: when the call to prayer is given and when the rows are formed [while fighting] for Allah’s cause” (Reported by Malik). So seek, O mujahid, the times of acceptance like the hour on the day of Jumu’ah, when the adhan is called, when rain falls, and during the last third of the night. Abu Hurayrah  narrated that Allah’s Messenger g said, “Our Lord  descends2 every night to the lowest heaven, when there remains the final third of the night, saying, ‘Who will call upon Me, so that I will answer him? Who will ask Me, so that I will give to him? Who will seek My forgiveness, so that I will forgive him” (Reported by al-Bukhari and Muslim)? In another version, “Who is there to ask Me for provision, so that I will provide him? Who is there to ask Me to remove some harm, so that I will remove it from him” (Reported by Ahmad)? I truly hope from Allah that he will specifically answer us, as we have been oppressed by those near and far, and the whole world has gathered to go to war against us. There is glad tidings to you from Allah’s Messenger g, who said to Mu’adh, “Beware the supplication of the oppressed, for indeed, there is no veil between him and Allah” (Reported by al-Bukhari and Muslim). Likewise, there was an oppressed prophet who was belied and then made du’a, so how was he answered? Allah c said, “The people of Nuh denied before them, and they denied Our servant and said, ‘A madman,’ and he was repelled. So he invoked his Lord, ‘Indeed, I am overpowered, so help.’ Then We opened the gates of the heaven with rain pouring down and caused the earth to burst with springs, and the waters met for a matter already predestined. And We carried him on planks and nails” (Al-Qamar 9-13). Then know, O mujahid, that of the paths to victory is the presence of those who are weak in our ranks, as well as their making du’a for us. Abu Sufyan said, “Hiraql said to me, ‘I asked you whether the nobles followed him or those who are weak amongst you, and you claimed the weak. Indeed, they are the followers of the messengers’” (Reported by al-Bukhari and Muslim from Ibn ‘Abbas). And the Prophet g said to Sa’d, “Are you given victory and provision through other than those who are weak amongst you” (Reported by al-Bukhari)? This hadith clarifies that the weak mujahidin should be considered, as well as others like women, children, and the elderly. That is because they are often more firmly sincere when making du’a, being more humbly devout, and have a greater need for and reliance on Allah. In conclusion, I give a reminder of His c saying, “O you who believe! Persevere, endure, remain stationed (in ribat), and fear Allah that you may be successful” (Al ‘Imran 200), and, “Rely on Allah, if you are believers” (Al-Maidah 23), and, “Indeed, Allah is with those who fear Him and those who are doers of good” (An-Nahl 128), and, “Allah will surely support those who support Him. Indeed, Allah is Powerful and Exalted in Might” (Al-Hajj 40), and, “O you who believe! When you encounter a company [of the enemy], stand firm and remember Allah much that you may be successful” (Al-Anfal 45), for these are the paths to victory found in the Book of Allah, so hold tightly to them.