Question: How was the situation on the front in the areas surrounding the city of Tadmur prior to the conquest, and how were preparations made for the attack on the city? Answer: The soldiers of the Khilafah previously took control of the city of Tadmur in the month of Sha’ban in 1436, and the Nusayri army and Rafidi militias were unable to recapture it despite dozens of continuous attacks in which they suffered hundreds of personnel being wounded and dozens of vehicles being destroyed. This was until they began a wide scale military campaign against the city with Russian air support at the start of the month of Jumada al-Akhirah in 1437. They mobilized thousands of ground troops (including army forces, Rafidi militias, Russian ground forces, and Russian advisors) in simultaneous coordination with a heavy aerial bombardment campaign, and on average the city’s neighborhoods would be bombarded with approximately 100 rockets, barrel bombs, and explosive gas cylinders each day. The mujahidin were forced to withdraw from the city in the middle of the same month, following which the Nusayri regime sought to expand its areas of control in the city’s surrounding areas. The mujahidin then began conducting a series of operations to exhaust the Nusayriyyah’s resources, in addition to wide scale attacks and assaults on their positions in the areas of Sha’ir and Jazal as well as in areas near the city of Tadmur, following which their operations were focused in the direction east of the city. The confrontations in the city and its surrounding areas from the period in which the soldiers of the Khilafah took control of the city for the first time in Sha’ban 1436 until the start of the month of Rabi’ al Awwal in 1438 resulted in the killing and wounding of approximately 1700 Nusayri army and Rafidi militia personnel, and 7 Russian military personnel, including a military advisor and two pilots. The number of vehicles that were either destroyed or taken as ghanimah by the mujahidin reached 236 in total, among which were 71 tanks, 18 23mm and 57mm cannons, a 14.5mm machine gun, 20 122mm and 130mm cannons, and several 4-wheel drive vehicles mounted with machine guns. This was in addition to the destruction of a Russian helicopter, and all praise is due to Allah. Question: What were the numbers and positions of the enemy in and around Tadmur prior to the conquest? Answer: The Nusayri regime and those who support it, the Russian forces and the Rafidi militias, took several positions as their central points in the city and around it. They fortified them greatly, including Mount Tar, the city’s silos, ‘Amiriyyah Hill, and Mount Huyan, while the area of Jazal was where they set up their military barracks, atop hills overlooking the roads leading to them, also fortifying them. On the side of the Nusayri regime forces, there were Rafidi militias from Iran, Afghanistan, and Iraq, and the so-called “Popular Committees,” as well as Russian forces. The Russian forces, whose numbers were confined to the dozens, were charged with operating support and air cover and training the troops present in the area. The number of Nusayri personnel in the city was between 1500 and 2000, reinforced with dozens of armored vehicles, tanks, and heavy weapons. The Nusayriyyah gathered this force to launch an attack on positions of the mujahidin in Khayr Wilayah. The city was divided based upon the militias stationed therein. Each of them occupied a street or building, painting their slogans of shirk and placing their particular flags all around, dominating the area thereby. The Rafidi mushrikin built several Husayniyyat inside the city, and they stole whatever property they could, even water tanks. The city was abound with checkpoints, there was a military base specifically for the Russian forces, and the city’s condition in regards to services was extremely bad. Question: Tell us about the operation to recapture the city of Tadmur. How was it conducted and what were the results of the conquest? Answer: The military operation began on the 8th of Rabi’ al-Awwal. The soldiers of the Khilafah launched a wide scale, surprise attack against the Nusayri army and the Rafidi militias from 8 axes along a frontline that’s approximately 200 kilometers long. They made a major advance – by Allah’s grace – and took control of the city of Tadmur, as well as dozens of positions in the surrounding areas, in addition to the oil and gas fields, and vast areas of the eastern Hims countryside in a surprise attack that destroyed the Nusayriyyah’s hopes of advancing on the Tadmur – Khayr highway with the intent of breaking the mujahidin’s siege on the Nusayriyyah in the city of Khayr and its military airbase. The importance of the city of Tadmur lies in the fact that it’s a transportation hub that connects between the Hamah, Hims, and Dimashq wilayat, in addition to it being a crossroad leading to areas under the Khilafah’s control in the direction of the Dimashq, Hamah, Hims, Khayr, and Raqqah wilayat. It is also considered a launch pad towards areas under the Nusayri regime’s control. The Nusayri leadership had increased its movements a number of months ago and held meetings with a number of those whom they claim are tribal leaders in Khayr and Raqqah. They announced the formation of a tribal mobilization patterned after the Rafidah’s shoes – the Tribal Mobilization in Iraq. This new tribal mobilization would become shoes which the Nusayriyyah would wear in order to reach the city of Khayr after setting out from the city of Tadmur, as they claimed. The best means of defense is to attack in a manner that is the opposite of what the Nusayriyyah would expect and desire, so the muwahhid soldiers of Allah made preparations and – while seeking the aid of Allah  – attacked simultaneously in a wide scale operation along a frontline stretching 200 km. The operations began at night on the Huwaysis axis. Clashes were taking place in that area on a continuous basis and in an accustomed manner, but at fajr that day things were more different there than they were on the rest of the axes, as the inghimasi groups were preparing to carry out an assault on the kuffar. After receiving the order, dozens of the Khilafah army’s tanks on all of the operational axes pounded the barracks of the Nusayri army and the militias supporting it while advancing towards those barracks in order to provide cover for the inghimasi groups, who quickly reached the kuffar’s sconces at the Talilah checkpoints, the areas surrounding the Tadmur grain silos, and Mount Huyan, which is the same mountain that proved difficult for the Nusayriyyah, the Rafidah, and the Russian warplanes to deal with during the course of the battle in which they took control of Tadmur last year. The soldiers of the Khilafah took complete control of Mount Huyan, the Talilah checkpoints, and a number of checkpoints located further forward in the areas surrounding the silos during the course of the first day of battles, and all praise is due to Allah. Following this, the Nusayriyyah’s strongholds in the Jihar, Jazal, Muhr, and Hayyan Company gas fields collapsed, along with other military positions. The silos – the kuffar’s impenetrable fortress – had fallen, and the noose was tightened with the fall of Mount Tar. Immediately, the orders came for the Russian forces present in Tadmur to quickly withdraw, and the news of the Russians fleeing the battle struck the Rafidah and the Nusayriyyah like a thunderbolt, for they had believed that they could not be defeated as long as they had Russian air and artillery support as well as the night vision equipment they’d provided them with. The capture of Tadmur came unexpectedly. Preparations were made, by the grace of Allah c upon His muwahhid slaves, and after only four days of fighting, Allah opened the way for us. The Nusayri Army and Rafidi militias quickly collapsed ahead of the mujahidin’s attacks, suffering huge losses, as 350 murtaddin were killed and wounded, 50 others were captured, a jet was shot down, 3 others were destroyed while grounded at T4 Airbase, and the mujahidin took ghanimah of more than 50 tanks, 28 various caliber artillery pieces, 7 BMPs, a multiple rocket launcher, 4 anti-armor launch pads, amounts of Grad and Kornet rockets, tank shells, machine guns, and a big quantity of various ammunition, and all praise is due to Allah for what He has blessed us with. Question: What was the role of the istishhadiyyin and the inghimasiyyin in the conquest of Tadmur and the battles that followed? Answer: On the third day of battles, the decisive weapon – after the success granted by Allah – was the istishhadi operation, the fatal weapon against the kuffar and their perpetual terror. The knight of shahadah, Abu Bakr al-Khalidi , set out with his explosive tank towards the Tadmur silos, the most fortified of the kuffar’s barracks, where the Afghan Fatimi militias, the Iraqi Sayyid ash-Shuhada battalions, and others were stationed, with Russian officers supervising them. As the istishhadi advanced towards them, the kuffar tried to escape, but the brother overtook them and turned their strongholds into ruins. Just moments later, the soldiers of the Khilafah were already at the walls of the silos, finishing off those who remained of them and advancing to the eastern Tadmur farms. Meanwhile, the inghimasi detachments on the Mount Tar axis were advancing towards their targets, while seeking Allah’s aid. Allah opened for them the Nusayriyyah’s barracks on the mountain, as well as the Tadmur depots, and the noose on the Nusayriyyah inside the city was tightened as they were surrounded on three sides, with one escape route left through the road leading to the area of Dawwah to the north. Question: Directly following the recapture of Tadmur, what did the mujahidin do? Answer: The mujahidin took advantage of the breakdown in the ranks of the Nusayriyyah and their allies, and continued to advance from all axes until they reached the outskirts of the T4 military airbase, following which they took control of the checkpoint at the Qaryatayn junction, the Hayr plantation, and the air defense battalion base in the vicinity of the airbase, and tightened the noose on the airbase from three directions. Question: What are the most important points and areas which the Islamic State took control of during the course of the attack? Answer: Northwest from the city of Tadmur, there are the areas of Huwaysis, nearby Sha’ir, Jazal, Jihar, the two artillery hills, and the towers in the area of Jazal, as well as a strategic mountain located between Jazal and Sha’ir. Southwest of Tadmur is the area of Qasr al-Hallabat and the strategic Mount Huyan, which overlooks the city and the Nusayri supply route that leads to it. In the northeast, there are the Irtuwaziyyah checkpoint, and the Burj and Muhr hills. The Irtuwaziyyah checkpoint is near the Muhr Gas Company, located northeast of T4 Airbase, west of Tadmur. There are fifteen military checkpoints in the area stretching between Muhr and Jihar. There are the silos of Tadmur, which Russian forces made their barracks and which was their strongest line of defense, as well as 8 checkpoints surrounding it, and the Taliyyah junction, east of the city. North of the city of Tadmur, there is the strategic Mount Tar, Mount ‘Antarah, and the Tadmur military depots, which was the strangling point of the Nusayri regime and its militias inside the city. On the southern side, there is the strategic Mount Huyan. In the west, there is the Mahjurah Battalion, northeast of T4 Airbase. Then, the city of Tadmur was conquered, by the grace of Allah, after the kuffar’s defenses collapsed following the capture of Fort Tadmur, overlooking the entire city, and of ‘Amiriyyah Hill and the ‘Amiriyyah neighborhood north of the city, in addition to the city’s eastern entrance, and also after threatening the only remaining supply route for the kuffar, which lay besieged between Mount Huyan and Mount Tar, northwest and southwest of the city, both of which were under the mujahidin’s control within the first three days of the battle. Also, in the west of Tadmur, there are the areas of Bayyarat, Dawwah, and the Tadmur Triangle, as well as positions and important facilities, like the Muhr Gas Company, the Jihar gas field, the Jazal oil field, its surrounding areas, and the Hayyan Gas Company. Tadmur was completely secured after an advance 40km to the west of the city, and all praise is due to Allah. The city of Tadmur and Hamah Wilayah were then connected and the ribat line of the mujahidin became joined from Hamah to Dimashq. And on the Tadmur-Dimashq highway, we took control of the Jihar junction east of T4 Airbase, as well as positions and fortifications of the kuffar on the mountain range, north of the airbase, including 12 positions on the hills leading towards the air defense battalion. Southeast of the airbase is the village of Marhatan, the Syriatel tower, the two areas of Qasr al-Hayr and Mashtal – in the vicinity of Baridah, south of T4 Airbase – and the checkpoint of the intersection linking Qaryatayn city and T4 Airbase. West of the airbase, there is the village of Sharifah. Question: What is the strategic importance of the military airbase? Answer: The T4 Airbase is the largest military airbase in Sham. It has the capability to receive takeoffs and landings of jets and bombers, and is also equipped with helipads for choppers. From this airbase, aerial support is provided to the eastern countryside of Hims, as well as being a point of departure for helicopters. Likewise, its nearness to the oil and gas fields in the same area has contributed to its support capabilities during years of battling the Islamic State in the area. Any force that attempts to advance towards Tadmur comes from this airbase. Its geographical position allows for making it a hub for the countryside of Hims, separating its eastern division from its southern division, with its boundaries of movement being between the north, up to the countryside of Hims, then to Dimashq Wilayah. Question: What was the involvement, if any, of the Sahwat in these battles inside Hims Wilayah and its surrounding areas? Answer: Following their statements declaring that Russia was incapable of directing the battle against the Islamic State, America directed the Sahwah divisions which they had stationed along the artificial border to prepare to launch attacks in order to relieve some of the pressure on the Nusayriyyah, and indeed, the Sahwat announced the campaign dubbed “Radd al-I’tibar” for their bitter defeat in East Qalamun months prior when they employed dozens of vehicles and attacked some phony positions the mujahidin had set up in the Shami Hamad Desert, which took them into a field of landmines that led to a number of them being killed and wounded, following which they withdrew and returned to their positions defending the Jordanian border near the American base in Ruqban and didn’t look back, and all praise is due to Allah. Question: Why was the Hayyan Gas Company in the eastern Hims countryside blown up, and why was it important to the Nusayri regime? Answer: The Hayyan Company produces more than 3 million cubic meters of gas daily, establishing a huge economic resource, which the Nusayri regime exploited to finance its military operations. The great importance of this company to the Nusayri regime lies in its fueling electrical power generation in the southern area of Sham. Its loss increases the shortage of electricity in areas under Nusayri regime control, in addition to the other material losses they suffer in trying to find a substitute. Question: Tell us about the signs, miracles, and support from Allah in this battle. Answer: All the reports tell of the completely unexpected collapse of the Nusayri army and its militias in a short period of time despite the strong presence of Russian forces in the area and the strong participation of Rafidi militias in the area, and of their desperate retreat, and of the harsh nature of the regions, and the difficult elevations – particularly in the area of Jazal, as it is known for its large mountains and numerous hills – not to mention the arsenal and military force which the Nusayri regime had placed in the area. And in the face of some simple attacks and assaults, they fled – by Allah’s grace and due to the success He granted to His mujahid slaves. There was also an incident that occurred and had a major role – after Allah  – in shaking the ranks of the kuffar: We saw how Allah’s support became apparent when an istishhadi named Abu Bakr al-Khayr  advanced in a tank rigged with explosives towards the city of Tadmur’s silos, the kuffar’s strongest lines of defense for the city of Tadmur. He continued advancing for 15 minutes, passing one barrier after another. Dozens of projectiles rained down on his tank as he advanced, and Allah  was protecting him, until he eventually reached his target and detonated his vehicle in the midst of their gathering near the silos. A thick cloud of smoke emerged as a result of the brother detonating his vehicle, and it began moving until it reached the silos and covered them, at which point it did not move again. Subhanallah! It covered the silos completely and remained there, and the kuffar couldn’t see anything at all. After that, the iqtihamiyyin advanced and took control of the area, and this operation played a major role in the brothers’ advance towards the entrance to the city of the direction of ‘Amiriyyah.