The first forerunners from among the Muhajirin and the Ansar knew that Jannah was Allah’s precious commodity, and also knew that none would be able to pay its price except one who rolled up his sleeves for difficult work. So they searched for every path to Allah’s pleasure so that they could attain it, while asking Allah for facilitation and acceptance. Thus, you would see them resolving to engage in trade with Allah, selling their lives and wealth so that He would purchase them. “O you who have believed, shall I guide you to a transaction that will save you from a painful punishment? [It is that] you believe in Allah and His Messenger and strive in the cause of Allah with your wealth and your lives. That is best for you, if you should know. He will forgive you your sins and admit you to gardens beneath which rivers flow and pleasant dwellings in gardens of perpetual residence. That is the great attainment” (As-Saff 10-12). When they recognized that the quickest path leading to it is shahadah for the cause of Allah, they descended onto the battlefields, advancing forward and not retreating, hastening, proceeding towards death, and taking it as a means to attaining life. Anas Ibn an-Nadr  Storms the Mushrikin on the Day of Uhud Here we have Anas Ibn an-Nadr , who was absent from the Battle of Badr and was extremely upset as a result. However, he swore an oath and made a promise, so let us listen to his nephew Anas Ibn Malik as he tells us about his uncle’s deed. He said, “My uncle, Anas Ibn an Nadr, was absent from the fighting at Badr, so he said, ‘O Messenger of Allah, I was absent from the first battle in which you fought the mushrikin. If Allah allows me to attend a battle against the mushrikin, Allah will certainly see what I will do!’ Then, when the day of Uhud came and the Muslims became exposed, he said, ‘O Allah, I ask Your pardon for what these ones (i.e. the Sahabah) have done, and I absolve myself before You of what these ones (i.e. the mushrikin) have done.’ He then advanced and was met by Sa’d Ibn Mu’adh, so he said, ‘O Sa’d Ibn Mu’adh, it is Jannah, by the Lord of an-Nadr! Indeed, I smell its fragrance before Uhud.’ Sa’d said, ‘But I was not able, O Messenger of Allah, to do what he did.’” Anas said, “We found on him eighty some-odd sword wounds, spear wounds, and arrow wounds, and we found that he had been killed and the mushrikin had mutilated him, so no one recognized him except for his sister, through his fingertips.” Anas then said, “We would view or think that this ayah was revealed about him and his likes: ‘Among the believers are men true to what they promised Allah’ (Al-Ahzab 23).” ‘Umayr Ibn al-Hammam  Races to a Garden as Wide as the Heavens and Earth And here we have Anas  telling us about their endeavor. He said, “Allah’s Messenger g and his companions set out and arrived at Badr before the mushrikin. The mushrikin then came, so Allah’s Messenger g said, ‘Let not any one of you proceed towards anything unless I am in front of him.’ The mushrikin then came close, so Allah’s Messenger g said, ‘Arise to a garden whose width is that of the heavens and the earth.’ ‘Umayr Ibn al-Hammam said, ‘O Messenger of Allah, a garden whose width is that of the heavens and the earth?’ He said, ‘Yes.’ ‘Umayr said, ‘Bakhin Bakh (i.e. How amazing)!’ So Allah’s Messenger g said, ‘What makes you say ‘Bakhin bakh?’’ He said, ‘Nothing, by Allah, except the hope that I become one of its inhabitants.’ Allah’s Messenger g said, ‘Indeed, you are one of them.’ ‘Umayr then took some dates out of his quiver and began eating them. He then said, ‘If I live to eat these dates of mines it will have been a long life!’ He then cast aside the dates he had and fought the mushrikin until he was killed.” Leaders of the Mutah Detachment Seek Shahadah In the Battle of Mutah, Ja’far Ibn Abi Talib  took the banner with his right hand but it was then cut off, so he took it with his left hand and it was then cut off. He then embraced it with his upper arms until he was killed, and he was 33 years old. So Allah rewarded him for that with two wings in Jannah with which he flies wherever he wishes. And it was said that a man from among the Romans struck him that day, cutting him in half. The Bedouin Muhajir Was Truthful to Allah so Allah Was Truthful to Him Look at their truthfulness to Allah. Shaddad Ibn al- Had  narrated, saying, “A man from the Bedouins came to the Prophet g, believed in him, and followed him. He then said, ‘I will perform hijrah with you.’ So the Prophet g told some of his companions to look after him and teach him. Then, when there was a battle, the Prophet g took some ghanimah. So he divided it and allotted for the Bedouin a share, and gave that share to his companions. The Bedouin had taken their animals out to pasture, and when he came back they gave him his share. So he said, ‘What is this?’ They said, ‘A share which the Prophet g has allotted for you.’ So he took it and came with it to the Prophet g and said to him, ‘What is this?’ He said, ‘I allotted it for you.’ The Bedouin said, ‘It is not for this that I followed you. Rather, I followed you so that I would be struck here – and he pointed to his throat – by an arrow and die, and then enter Jannah!’ So the Prophet g said, ‘Indeed, Allah will be truthful to you.’ They then remained for a short time and then rose to fight the enemy. He was then carried to the Prophet g having been hit by an arrow in the spot he had pointed to, so the Prophet g said, ‘Is it him?’ They said, ‘Yes.’ So he said, ‘He was truthful to Allah, so Allah was truthful to him.’ The Prophet g then shrouded him with his garment. He then brought him forward and prayed over him, and among that which he said in his prayer was, ‘O Allah, this is Your slave. He set out, performing hijrah for Your cause, and was then killed as a shahid. I am a witness to that.’” Abu ‘Aqil  Crawls While Wounded in Order to Fight the Murtaddin Look also to the Day of Yamamah and to the people who defended the religion as long as there remained in their bodies a pulsing vein, until they were killed as shuhada. Ja’far Ibn ‘Abdillah Ibn Aslam said, “On the Day of Yamamah, when the fighters had formed ranks, the first person to be wounded was Abu ‘Aqil. He was hit by an arrow that struck him between his shoulders and his heart without killing him. The arrow was removed and the left side of his body became weak in the first part of the day, so he was brought to the encampment. When the fighting intensified and the Muslims were being defeated and had been pushed back past their encampment, Abu ‘Aqil, who was weak due to his wound, heard Ma’n Ibn ‘Adiyy shouting, ‘O Ansar! Remember Allah and charge the enemy!’” ‘Abdullah Ibn ‘Umar said, “So Abu ‘Aqil got up, intending to head to his people, so I said, ‘What do you want to do? You can’t fight!’ He said, ‘The caller has called out my name!’” Ibn ‘Umar said, “So I said to him, ‘He’s saying, ‘O Ansar,’ and he doesn’t mean the wounded ones.’ Abu ‘Aqil said, ‘I am from the Ansar and I will respond to him even if I have to crawl!’” Ibn ‘Umar said, “So Abu ‘Aqil wore his belt, took the sword with his right hand, and then began calling out, ‘O Ansar! A charge like the Day of Hunayn! So gather – may Allah have mercy on you – and march forward, for the Muslims are now a target in front of their enemy!’ They then pushed the enemy into the garden and the fighters were mixed together and were exchanging blows.” Ibn ‘Umar said, “So I looked at Abu ‘Aqil, whose wounded arm had been cut off at the shoulder and had fallen to the ground, and he had fourteen wounds, all of which were lethal, and Allah’s enemy, Musaylimah, was killed.” Ibn ‘Umar said, “So I stood over Abu ‘Aqil as he was dying, and said, ‘O Abu ‘Aqil!’ He said, ‘At your service,’ in a confused manner. ‘Who was defeated?’ I said, ‘Rejoice, the enemy of Allah has been killed.’ So he lifted his finger towards the sky praising Allah and then died – may Allah have mercy upon him.” Al-Bara Ibn Malik  Storms the Murtaddin’s Stronghold (The Garden) And from among them was the first inghimasi in Islam, al-Bara Ibn Malik, the brother of Anas Ibn Malik . Ibn Sirin narrated, saying, “The Muslims reached a wall behind which were men from among the mushrikin. So al-Bara sat on a shield and said, ‘Lift me up with your spears and cast me to them.’” So they cast him behind the wall. Ibn Sirin said, “They then reached him after ten of the mushrikin had been killed, and he had eighty some-odd arrow and sword wounds that day, so Khalid Ibn al-Walid cared for him for one month until he recovered from his wounds.” An Istishhadi Operation by Salim , the Freed Slave of Abu Hudhayfah Muhammad Ibn Thabit Ibn Qays Ibn Shammas al-Ansari narrated, saying, “When the Muslims were exposed on the Day of Yamamah, Salim, the freed slave of Abu Hudhayfah, said, ‘This is not how we would be when we were with Allah’s Messenger g!’ He then dug a hole for himself and stood in it, and with him was the banner of the Muhajirin that day. He then fought until he was killed on the Day of Yamamah as a shahid.” Busr Ibn Artah Storms a Roman Stronghold Al-‘Ala Ibn Sufyan al-Hadrami narrated, saying, “Busr Ibn Artah raided the Romans and his rearguard kept getting hit, so he would try to ambush the Romans but the ambush would fail. When he saw that, he went to the rear of one hundred of his soldiers, moving slowly back until he was alone and found himself in one of the valleys of the Romans. He suddenly saw around thirty non-Arab horses that were fastened, and inside the church next to them were the knights to whom those horses belonged, the very knights who had been harassing his rearguard. So he dismounted from his horse and fastened it. He then entered the church and locked the door on both himself and the Romans, so the Romans were amazed at him locking the door, and by the time they had taken up their spears he had already struck down three of them. His companions found him missing, so they searched for him and came to the church. They recognized his horse, and heard the clamor inside the church, so they went to it but found that its door was locked. So they removed part of the roof and descended upon them. Busr was holding part of his intestines in his hand and his sword was in his right hand. Once his companions managed to get inside the church, he fell unconscious. They then advanced on the Romans, killing some of them and taking some of them prisoner. The prisoners then turned to them and said, ‘We ask you by Allah, who is this man?’ They said, ‘Busr Ibn Artah.’ So the Romans said, ‘By Allah, no woman has ever given birth to his likes!’ His companions then tended to his intestines and placed them back inside him, and nothing of his intestines had been torn. They then bandaged him with their turbans, carried him off, and then stitched him, and he recovered and became well.” Such was the Sahabah’s eagerness to attain this high rank in Jannah, despite them being the most pious, devout, and knowledgeable of the people, and neither did any eagerness to seek knowledge and to teach it, nor did any attachment to the Dunya, their fathers, and their sons prevent them from striving to reach it. And their followers will proceed upon their footsteps until the Day of Judgment, until the last of them fights the Dajjal, by Allah’s permission.