The murtaddin of “The Euphrates Shield,” from the Turkish army and the Sahwah factions, do not conceal the real goal behind their attacks against the Islamic State. That is, the removal of Allah’s rule from the earth and the return of those lands under its governance to the rule of Jahiliyyah, by way of shirki courts of man-made legislation in their various forms and names and with their different jahili laws that support them. However, what has been hidden from many people is the reality that on their way to achieving that objective, they are prepared to destroy everything and kill every person in those lands. This includes killing those residents whom they claim to be striving to liberate from the obligations of the religion and the lawfulness of the Shari’ah. This is demonstrated by their constant declaration that any area they attack is a “military zone,” paving the way for them to shell it with whatever they have of weaponry. Then, the reality of this matter became ever so clear in every village or town that defied them in the northern and eastern countrysides of Halab Wilayah, with the destructive and haphazard bombardment from the apostate Turkish army’s artillery and aircraft, supported by Russian and American Crusader aircraft, without any care for the number of victims from the dozens of families they destroyed. Likewise, it is obscure to many people that these murtaddin are prepared, in order to achieve their objective, to assist any side in fighting against the Islamic State. Be it the criminal Nusayri regime, for whom they have claimed to have enmity for years, or the Russian Crusader army, who continuously bombard the people of Sham, the same people whom they have supposedly come out in order to support and relieve from oppression. And this is aside from their assistance to the American Crusaders, whom – only a few short years ago – they considered a great demon, cursing them and whomever convened with them. It is also obscure to them that much of the tears that have been shed during the past years for the people of Sham – who have suffered greatly, at the hands of the Nusayri army and its allies of the Rafidah and Russian Crusaders, in loss of life and the destruction of their cities and villages – were only shed with the goal of inciting the people against a specific “enemy,” the Nusayri regime and its Rafidi and Russian allies – and not against everyone who kills the Muslims of Sham, destroying their homes and masajid over their heads and the heads of their children. The battles that have ensued in the city of Bab, between the allies of Rahman – the soldiers of the Islamic State – and the allies of Shaytan from the murtaddin of the Turkish and Nusayri armies, the Sahwat, the Rafidi militias, and the Russian and American Crusaders, and their allies from the evil scholars, the claimants of jihad, and the political parties and organizations, has indeed revealed the truth for all to see the nature of these murtaddin who refuse the rule of Shari’ah. These murtaddin of the Turkish army and Sahwah factions are prepared to commit the same crimes – or even worse – as those committed by the Crusaders, Rafidah, and Nusayriyyah in their war against Islam. And their practical hostility to the people of tawhid and the Shari’ah of Islam greatly exceeds their claimed hostility to those Jews, Crusaders, Rafidah, and Nusayriyyah who kill the muwahhidin and violate their women. The city of Bab and its surrounding areas, which the murtaddin of “The Euphrates Shield” were unable to breach for more than 100 days, suffered destruction the likes of which no other city in Sham has faced at the hands of the Rafidah and Nusayriyyah, as its Muslim people were killed by the hundreds due to the continuous shelling mutually supported by the mushrikin and murtaddin. Various groups of the enemies of Islam joined in assisting in this destruction. They are those who have previously – and even currently – shown hostility to one another, like the Sahwah murtaddin and the Rafidi militias, the Turkish army and the Nusayri army, and the American and Russian Crusaders. In an unprecedented scene witnessed by all, the mushrikin allied with one another against the people of Islam. The evil scholars and claimants of jihad remained silent concerning what they witnessed of Bab being bombarded and its Muslim people being killed by the new taghut of the Murtadd Brotherhood, Erdogan, and his brothers in the murtadd Sahwat. They were unconcerned about the partnership made with the Nusayriyyah, the Rafidah, and the Russian Crusaders, in the campaign against Bab, as they found that the only opposition thereto was from the soldiers of the Islamic State. They even incited their murtadd brethren to participate in “The Euphrates Shield” in order to appease their taghut masters, and the masters of their masters, the Crusaders. The slaughter of the kuffar in Bab, in which the lions of the Khilafah’s army stood steadfast, as stable as mountains, was a great nuisance to the murtaddin, and not only in loss of life and equipment or as an insult to the reputation of their armies; rather, it truly exposed those who participated and who have claimed to be Muslims, claimed to care about Muslim blood, and claimed to support the Muslims. As such, the steadfastness of the mujahidin, wherever they are, in the face of their enemies – by Allah’s permission – will expose their secrets and show their flaws. This steadfastness in fighting them is the best means of calling others to the cause of Allah and confronting the cause of criminals.