We would not be exaggerating if we were to say that hundreds of movements, parties, and factions have arisen over the course of the past century claiming to be working for the return of the khilafah, the implementation of the Shari’ah, and the establishment of the religion on the earth. However, they all failed to achieve that, despite some of them having reached a stage of either actual consolidation or pseudo-consolidation. Among them were those who even managed to establish some of the rulings of the Shari’ah, but the aforementioned aspirations were never achieved in their entirety except by the Islamic State, and virtue has and always will belong to Allah. If we were to look at the condition of those movements we would find that most of them created obstacles and obstructions for themselves that either blocked the path in front of them or forcefully pushed them to deviate from the single, true path that would lead to the lofty goal to which they aspired. They burdened themselves with that which Allah had not burdened them with and obligated upon themselves that which Allah had not obligated upon them, regardless of whether they were those who tread the path of harshness, ghuluww (extremism), and imposing that which Allah had not obligated on them, or those who tread the path of fleeing from the shar’i rulings. In both cases, they became distant from the straight path and the upright methodology for establishing the religion. Corrupt Absolutes One of the main things that they burdened themselves with is that which they innovated of work methodologies which their leaders, theorists, and scholars put in place for them, giving them names such as political theories, movement methodologies, or the likes of that, referring to what they’ve imposed of prerequisites that are necessary for achieving the results that they aim for with their work and their movement, such that their perceptions and desires inspired to them methods of work that should be followed in order to reach the desired goal – the establishment of Allah’s religion on the earth. And they were not content with merely putting forth these theories or hypotheses. Rather, they made them out to be equal to the straight path with respect to working for the establishment of Allah’s religion, as it was incorrect – in their view – to follow anything else in order to reach the goal. As a result, they tread the path of absolutes and burdened themselves and their followers with that which they could not bear and that which had not been obligated on them. Thus, they increased in misguidance, and Allah does not guide the defiantly disobedient people. These suppositions were based on the notion that the path towards establishing the religion should involve reaching a level-based goal or surmounting a major obstacle, and that without achieving either one or the other it wouldn’t be possible – according to them – to establish the religion or to speak of an Islamic state, let alone establish a khilafah upon the prophetic methodology and a greater imamah for a unified ummah. The biggest problem with their hypotheses is that it generally isn’t possible to establish the correctness or incorrectness of a hypothesis without first putting it to the test. So if the result of the experiment backs up the hypothesis, then it has thus been proven and can be considered a correct theory. And if the theory is repeatedly successful in varying circumstances, it becomes an established formula through which one can gauge the results of any action or the future of any situation if the elements of that action and its situation correspond with the formula’s pre-requisites. And this is where the trouble lies for those movements, because they would treat their hypotheses as if they were theories that had proven to be correct, or they would treat the theories of other groups – which those groups believed to be correctly applicable to their specific situations – as if they were established formulas that should be adhered to in every situation, era, and place. Experiments Whose Price Was Blood The only way to test theories and hypotheses that concern humans – or a subsection of them – and everything related to their lives is for them to turn themselves into a field of experiment, by pushing themselves to apply their hypotheses, waiting for the results to appear in the real world, recording the results, and then making a judgment based on the results as to the correctness of the hypothesis based on real world evidence. This means bearing a high cost for the sake of reaching the desired goal, in addition to bearing the heavy losses that can be expected if the basis of the hypothesis is mistaken, or if it is applied in an incorrect manner, or even if an influential variable or factor that wasn’t previously anticipated enters the field of experiment and is difficult or impossible to remove due to influential factors being mixed together and entangled in a natural environment, as opposed to lab environments (such as those where conventional physics and chemistry experiments take place) where it’s possible to separate the experiment from the surrounding environment and, in doing so, obtain results that are more accurate. And because this is the only way to test such theories and hypotheses, the theorists and movement leaders lifted their hypotheses and immediately dropped them on the ground, having their followers (and sometimes themselves) bear the costs of carrying out the experiment. Each one of them would test his hypotheses on his followers, until the earth was filled with these movements’ experiments, which were established on the basis of those hypotheses, and as a result the last century saw many major experiments, each of which had a number of other experiments branching off from them. The result was that we found dozens of experiments being implemented at once on the vast field across which the Muslims around the world were spread. Rather, you would even find several experiments in a single country, with the leaders of the various experiments fighting more among themselves than they did against the taghut regimes which they originally came out to oppose. Slaves of Theories The results of these experiments were truly disastrous. Millions of people were killed, imprisoned, and exiled at the hands of the taghut regimes without anything having been achieved, and behind that, in most cases – in addition to the deviation in ‘aqidah and manhaj – were incorrect hypotheses whose proponents attempted to test in the real world, having previously convinced their followers that these hypotheses were correct and that they were guaranteed to have positive results. In fact, the results of these hypotheses not only brought about enormous losses in material and personnel, but also went beyond that and afflicted the religion itself by introducing heresies and evils which they labeled as being means that were necessary for bringing about the desired change. Some of them even reached the level of treading the path of shirk, while claiming that this path would lead the Ummah to the pure tawhid. So neither did they establish the religion, nor did they preserve their religion. And if we were to examine the arena today we would find that it continues to be swarmed with these corrupt hypotheses, which many people have taken as deities to be worshiped instead Allah. So the movements rally around them, individuals become fanatical towards them, and they are made the basis for wala and bara, all despite their proven failure, the catastrophe they’ve brought about for the Ummah, and – above all that – their violation of the religion’s most fundamental principle, as well as its rulings. “Or One Who Walks Upright on a Straight Path” In his tafsir of Allah’s  statement, “Then is one who walks fallen on his face better guided or one who walks upright on a straight path?” (Al- Mulk 22), Imam at-Tabari  said, “Allah  said, ‘Then is one who walks,’ O people, ‘fallen on his face,’ unable to see what is in front of him, and what is to his right and to his left, ‘better guided,’ meaning: is adhering more closely to the path and is better guided along it, ‘or one who walks upright,’ the way the sons of Adam walk – on his feet – ‘on a straight path,’ meaning: on a path which contains no crookedness” (Tafsir at-Tabari). No one could ever think that one who walks while unable to see the path before him is better guided than one who proceeds upright on a path that contains no crookedness and no obstacles. It would always be feared for the first that he would stray from the path. As for the other, Allah has blessed him with the ability to see what is around him, and as such, he proceeds upon an upright path that leads him to nothing other than guidance. Such is the difference between the mujahidin of the Islamic State and the deviants and murtaddin of the various factions and organizations, for the people of truth do not take a single step forward until they know the shar’i ruling concerning that step. They do not take that step until they ensure that it’s valid and will not take them off the straight path – the path that would take them to Jannah, on top of leading them to their goal of establishing the religion. As for the people of misguidance, they’ve devoted themselves wholeheartedly to the paths laid out for them by their leaders and can see nothing else, and they cannot see the crookedness these paths contain, nor can they see the obstacles that obstruct them. For this reason, it is never long before they run into an insurmountable obstacle or deviate from the straight path. In future segments, we will present – by Allah’s permission – examples of the paths followed by the people of misguidance in their endeavor to supposedly establish the religion, implement the Shari’ah, and bring back the khilafah, in order to show the difference between these paths and the prophetic methodology, which the Islamic State adhered to – by Allah’s grace – until Allah granted it consolidation in the land, and all praise is due to Allah, the Lord of creation. 