No two Muslims would disagree that preparing for jihad for the cause of Allah is an obligation. Allah urged people to this duty in His book when He  said, “Prepare against them whatever you are able of power and of steeds of war by which you may terrify the enemy of Allah and your enemy and others besides them whom you do not know [but] whom Allah knows. And whatever you spend in the cause of Allah will be fully repaid to you, and you will not be wronged” (Al-Anfal 60). So there is no doubt that preparation is a factor that contributes to victory and success against the enemy. By Allah’s grace, the soldiers of the Khilafah have complied with this divine command. They prepared as much as Allah has made possible for them, a good amount of which the enemy has seen, and what is coming is more severe and bitter, by Allah’s permission. However, a muwahhid Muslim should not rely and depend on what he has prepared. Rather, he should count on the might and power of Allah instead of his own might and power. He should not be tempted by this power in any way, because even if readiness is one of the factors of victory, being conceited with it is a factor of defeat. We have a good example in the life of the Sahabah of Allah’s Messenger . We also have a lesson from what they went through on the Day of Hunayn. Allah  said, “Allah has already given you victory in many arenas and on the Day of Hunayn, when your great number pleased you, but it did not avail you at all, and the earth was confining for you with its vastness; then you turned back, fleeing. Then Allah sent down His tranquility upon His Messenger and upon the believers and sent down soldiers whom you did not see and punished those who disbelieved. And that is the recompense of the disbelievers” (At-Tawbah 25-26). Ibn Kathir said in his tafsir of this ayah, “Allah told the Muslims of His assistance and His generosity in His giving them victory in many arenas of battle alongside His Messenger. And He mentioned to them that it is thanks to Him, His approval of them, and His appreciation of them, and not thanks to their numbers or their equipment. He warned them that victory comes from Him, whether the force has large or small numbers. On the Day of Hunayn, they were fooled by their numbers, for such was not useful to them in any way. They retreated in defeat with the exception of a few who stayed with Allah’s Messenger . Then, Allah sent His victory and support to His Messenger and the believers who were with him.” Therefore, O muwahhid mujahid, be aware that your preparation is in compliance with the order of Allah and that victory comes from Him alone, and that with committing to His obedience and abstaining from what He warned against, you shall have victory and success. Know that just as He ordered you to prepare, He also commanded you to depend on Him alone. Allah said, “He will provide for him from where he does not expect. And whoever relies upon Allah, then He is sufficient for him. Indeed, Allah will accomplish His purpose. Allah has already set for everything a decreed extent” (At-Talaq 3). The mujahid should also know that a change in intention and heart is harsher and more dangerous to him than facing the enemy hordes, no matter their size, and enemy aircraft, no matter their numbers and strikes. Therefore, he should take great care of his heart. He should be wary of Iblis and his whispers, as he very often tempts the changing of intentions and does not tire of doing so until the soul parts the body. The mujahid must let his heart always be attached to Allah alone, letting nothing sever this attachment. He should be wary of statements that may quickly change hearts, like “the istishhadi causes much damage to Allah’s enemies and is decisive in the battle,” or like “since we have such a weapon, we will not be defeated and we will not be vanquished,” or like “the weapons we have prepared are sufficient to defeat the enemies.” Let the mujahid’s state, words, and sure faith in his heart be there, for there is no reliance nor dependence on what he has prepared, no matter how great, but only in compliance with the order of Allah. O mujahid! O you who left in order that the word of Allah be supreme and that the word of those who disbelieve be low, and O you who sacrificed everything so that tawhid prevails all over the world: do not be of those who would reduce or break their tawhid. Instead, rely on Allah appropriately, for He manages affairs and brings about the necessary means by His command.