Concerning the statement of Allah , “Only those of His slaves who have knowledge fear Allah” (Fatir 28), Ibn Taymiyyah  said, “The meaning is that none fears Him except a scholar, for Allah has informed us that everyone who fears Allah is a scholar, as He stated in another ayah: ‘Is one who is devoutly obedient during periods of the night, prostrating and standing [in prayer], mindful of the Hereafter and hoping for the mercy of his Lord, [like one who does not]? Say, ‘Are those who know equal to those who do not know?’ It is only the people of understanding who will remember’ (Az-Zumar 9). Fear always comprises hope, and if not for that it would have been security. So those who fear Allah and have hope in Him are the people of knowledge whom Allah has aided. “It has been narrated that Abu Hayyan at-Taymi said, ‘The scholars are of three types: One who is knowledgeable of Allah but not knowledgeable of Allah’s affair, one who is knowledgeable of Allah’s affair but not knowledgeable of Allah, and one who is knowledgeable of Allah and knowledgeable of Allah’s affair. The one who is knowledgeable of Allah is the one who fears Him, and the one who is knowledgeable of Allah’s affair is the one who knows His commands and prohibitions.’ Likewise, the Prophet  said, ‘Indeed, I hope to be the most fearful of Allah among you and the most knowledgeable of that which he is mindful of ’ (Reported by Muslim from ‘Aishah). “If those who fear Allah are the scholars, who are praised in the Book and the Sunnah, then they do not deserve to be disparaged, and this is only the case if they perform the obligatory deeds. This is indicated by the statement of Allah , ‘So their Lord inspired to them, ‘We will surely destroy the wrongdoers. And We will surely cause you to dwell in the land after them. That is for he who fears My position and fears My threat’’ (Ibrahim 13-14). This is also indicated by His statement, ‘And for he who fears the position of his Lord are two gardens’ (Ar-Rahman 46). So He promised victory in the Dunya and reward in the Hereafter for those who feared Him, and this is only because they performed what was obligatory upon them. This is evidence that fear necessitates the performance of that which is obligatory, and for this reason it is said that an immoral person does not fear Allah. The evidence for this is the statement of Allah , ‘The repentance accepted by Allah is only for those who do wrong in ignorance [or carelessness] and then repent soon after’ (An-Nisa 17). One Knowledgeable of Allah Will Obey Him “Abul-‘Aliyah said, ‘I asked the companions of Muhammad about this ayah, and they said, ‘Everyone who disobeys Allah is ignorant, and anyone who repents before death has repented soon after [his sin].’’ And the rest of the scholars of tafsir have stated likewise. Mujahid said, ‘Every sinner is ignorant at the time of committing his sin.’ Likewise, al-Hasan, Qatadah, ‘Ata, as-Suddi, and others have said, ‘They were only called ignorant due to their sins, and not because they couldn’t distinguish [between good and evil].’ Az-Zajjaj said, ‘The meaning of the ayah isn’t that they were ignorant of it being something evil, because if a Muslim commits a sin that he is ignorant of, he is like one who has not committed any evil. So it is only one of two possibilities: The first is that they committed it while ignorant of the disliked matter it contains. The second is that they committed it while knowing and comprehending that its consequence is disliked, preferring what they would gain from it immediately over what they would gain in the Hereafter [from leaving it], and as such they were called ignorant for preferring that which is little over abundant comfort and permanent wellbeing.’ Here, az-Zajjaj has made ignorance to be either not knowing the consequence of the deed, or being corrupt in what one desires. It might be said that these two things are related, and this is further expounded on in the discussion about the Jahmiyyah. “What is intended here is that everyone who disobeys Allah is ignorant, and anyone who fears Him is a scholar who is obedient to Allah, and one only becomes ignorant due to a decrease in his fear of Allah, because if one’s fear of Allah had been complete he would not have sinned. Likewise, there is the statement of Ibn Mas’ud , ‘It is sufficient in terms of knowledge for one to fear Allah, and it is sufficient in terms of ignorance for one to be deceived concerning Allah.’ This is because envisioning the object of one’s fear necessitates fleeing from it, and envisioning the object of one’s love necessitates seeking it, so if one does not flee from the first and does not seek the second, it indicates that he has not envisioned it completely. He might, however, envision what is reported about it, but envisioning what is reported, affirming it, and memorizing its letters is not the same as envisioning that which is being reported about. Likewise is the case if he neither loves nor hates that which he envisions, for the human being may affirm that which is feared and loved by others, and this does not provoke him into fleeing from it, nor does it motivate him to seek it. Likewise is the case if he is informed of that which he loves or hates, and does not deny the one informing him – rather, he recognizes his truthfulness – but his heart is too busy with other matters to envision that which he has been informed of, and as such he neither flees from it nor seeks it. He Who Does Not Work in Accordance with His Knowledge Is Ignorant “In the well-known statement from al-Hasan al-Basri, which has also been attributed to the Prophet , ‘Knowledge is of two types, knowledge in the heart and knowledge on the tongue. The knowledge of the heart is the beneficial knowledge, and the knowledge of the tongue is Allah’s hujjah against His slaves.’ “Al-Bukhari and Muslim reported in the Sahihayn from Abu Musa that the Prophet  said, ‘The example of a believer who recites the Quran is like a citron: its taste is pleasant and its fragrance is pleasant. The example of a believer who does not recite the Quran is like a date: its taste is pleasant and it has no fragrance. The example of a munafiq who recites the Quran is like basil: its fragrance is pleasant but its taste is bitter. The example of a munafiq who does not recite the Quran is like a colocynth: its taste is bitter and it has no fragrance.’ This munafiq who recites the Quran, memorizes it, and envisions its meanings, may affirm that it is the speech of Allah and that the Messenger is true, but he is not a believer, just as the Jews recognize him as easily as they recognize their own sons, but regardless are not believers, and likewise Iblis, Fir’awn, and others. And whoever is like that has not attained a thorough degree of knowledge, for this undoubtedly necessitates performing what it obligates, and because of that, anyone who didn’t work in accordance with his knowledge would be called ignorant, as was previously mentioned. “Likewise, with respect to the term ‘intellect,’ many experts considered it to be a type of knowledge, therefore, it must be counted as a form of knowledge and dealt with according to its requirements. As such, none can be called intelligent except for those who know what is good and seek it, and who likewise know what is evil and abandon it. For this reason, the people of Hell say, ‘If only we had been listening or reasoning, we would not be among the companions of the Blaze’ (Al-Mulk 10). Likewise, Allah  said concerning the munafiqin, ‘You think they are together, but their hearts are divided. That is because they are a people who do not reason’ (Al-Hashr 14). He who does what he knows will harm him has no intelligence. So just as the fear of Allah necessitates having knowledge of Him, having knowledge of Him in turn necessitates fearing Him, and likewise fearing Him necessitates obeying Him. Therefore, he who fears Allah will carry out His commands and shun His prohibitions, and this is what we intended to first clarify. He Who Fears Shall Remember “What indicates this also is the statement of Allah , ‘So remind, if the reminder should benefit. He who fears [Allah] will be reminded. But the wretched one will avoid it – [he] who will [enter and] burn in the greatest Fire’ (Al-A’la 9-12). So He informed us that he who fears Him will be reminded, and being reminded here necessitates worshiping Him. Allah  said, ‘It is He who shows you His signs and sends down to you from the sky, provision. But none will remember except he who turns back [in repentance]’ (Ghafir 13). He also said, ‘Giving insight and a reminder for every servant who turns [to Allah]’ (Qaf 9). For this reason, with regards to Allah’s statement, ‘He who fears [Allah] will be reminded,’ the scholars of tafsir said that it means ‘he who fears Allah will take lesson from the Quran,’ and concerning Allah’s statement, ‘But none will remember except he who turns back [in repentance],’ they said that it means ‘only he who returns to obedience will take lesson.’ This is because if one remembers in a complete manner, it necessitates that he be affected by what he remembers, such that if he remembers that which is beloved to him he seeks it, and if he remembers that which he fears he flees from it. And in this regard there is the statement of Allah , ‘It is all the same for them whether you admonish them or do not admonish them – they will not believe’ (Al-Baqarah 6). Allah  also said, ‘You can only admonish one who follows the message and fears the Most Merciful in secret’ (Yasin 11). So Allah denied admonishment for these people in His statement, ‘It is all the same for them whether you admonish them or do not admonish them – they will not believe.’ On one hand, He established their admonishment, and on the other hand He denied their admonishment, because admonishment is to inform one of that which he fears. Therefore, admonishment is like teaching a person and scaring him. If you teach someone and they learn, then you have taught them. But it may also be the case that you teach someone and they don’t learn. Likewise, if you scare someone and they become afraid, then the goal of scaring them has been achieved. But if you scare someone and they don’t become afraid, then the goal of scaring them has not been achieved. And likewise, if you guide someone and they become guided, then their guidance has been achieved, and in this regard there is the statement of Allah , ‘A guidance for the pious’ (Al-Baqarah 2). If, however, you guide someone and they don’t become guided, as in Allah’s statement, ‘And as for Thamud, We guided them, but they preferred blindness over guidance’ (Fussilat 17), then in such a case their guidance has not been achieved, just as you would say, ‘I cut him and he was cut,’ and ‘I cut him but he wasn’t cut.’ “So something that has a complete effect necessitates that one be affected by it, and if its effect doesn’t occur, then it isn’t complete. Likewise, if a deed encounters a receptive place, its effect is achieved, and if it does not, then its effect is not achieved. Furthermore, having knowledge of that which a person loves will lead him to seek it, and having knowledge of that which a person hates will lead him to abandon it. For this reason, this knowledge is referred to as ‘the caller,’ and it is said, ‘The presence of the caller along with the presence of one’s capability, necessitates the presence of that which one is capable of attaining, which is to have knowledge of what is being sought. This knowledge in turn necessitates that a person desires the object of his knowledge. And all this can only be attained with a pure and upright fitrah (natural disposition). If, however, the fitrah is corrupt, a person may perceive that which is pleasurable but not find it to be pleasurable at all, and may instead find it to be painful. Likewise, he may find what is painful to be pleasurable due to the corruption of his fitrah. Corruption overcomes a person’s mental faculties as well as his physical faculties, such as in the case of a fool who finds honey to be bitter – his very sensations have been corrupted to the extent that he perceives honey in a manner that is opposite to how it actually is because of the one time that it was mixed with something bitter. And this is likewise in the case of an individual whose interior has become corrupt, as Allah  said, ‘And what will make you perceive that even if a sign came, they would not believe. And We will turn away their hearts and their eyes just as they refused to believe in it the first time’ (Al-An’am 109-110).” This marks the end of Ibn Taymiyyah’s  words, as quoted from Kitab al-Iman.