All praise belongs to Allah, Lord of the creation, and may peace and blessings be upon the one who was sent with a sword as a mercy to mankind. After coming to Islam, I was given a pile of guides compiled for the new Muslim. These books and booklets explained the five pillars of Islam and the six pillars of iman, and also taught how to perform wudu and salah. At first, I thought this was quite a lot, as I had previously seen the lack of religious adherence by so-called “Muslims” – those whom I had thought to be Muslims – who didn’t pray, possibly fasted during Ramadan, and whose extent of following the Shari’ah was restricted to the avoidance of eating pork. After my iman started to root deeper and I gained a better understanding of what Islam really means, I started to wonder how these customary “Muslims,” who would neither pray nor fast, could even call themselves Muslims. When I asked about this problem, I received varying answers from both lay “Muslims” and supposedly knowledgeable “Muslims.” The responses were so different, I couldn’t decide which one of them to follow. Most of them claimed that even if a person doesn’t pray, he can still be considered a Muslim. Perhaps due to the number of those who said that, I decided to follow that claim without investigating the topic any further. I didn’t face this particular matter again until sometime later. Then, someone who was braver than most of the others, dared to open his mouth and say that leaving the salah is, indeed, kufr. This time, I couldn’t let the matter rest, so I decided to start looking for an answer to this question myself. I started to read books about ‘aqidah. One of them mentioned something that I had never heard of before as a Muslim: the nullifiers of Islam. I was shocked! This was partly because I had never given thought to such a serious matter, and partly because nowhere else was I taught that, “Yes! In a blink of an eye, you can nullify your Islam and go from being a Muslim to being a murtadd kafir!” Kufr and riddah are two words that are taboo in the “Muslim” community of Finland. Few dare to utter them aloud and even fewer dare to accuse anyone of falling into them. But what is most dangerous is that most of them don’t even know that there are actions that take people out of Islam, so many people think they are still Muslims, while in reality they have fallen into kufr and riddah. Many people think Islam is like a citizenship – once you get it, it remains with you until the end of your life. But Islam doesn’t work with the same principle. It has conditions by which one enters it and nullifiers by which can leave it – even without knowing it. Just as wudu, salah, and fasting can be broken by certain actions, so too can one’s Islam be broken, and nothing restores it except sincere repentance. It is the responsibility of every Muslim to protect himself and others from kufr, so it is necessary to know about those actions which lead to it. The nullifiers of Islam that deal with democracy and man-made laws are those least mentioned. Participating in government elections and voting in them, as well as military service, working as a lawyer, and criticizing the Shari’ah of Allah, are only a few of the many things which can nullify one’s Islam, and all of them are easy to perpetrate when living in Dar al-Kufr. The kufr of these actions is rarely explained to the Muslims, nor are they warned about it; in fact, they are often even incited to commit them by the many evil scholars, the imams of kufr and their followers! The reason for this ignorance is the lack of study of the religion among individuals. Though most of the blame for this negligence could just as easily fall upon the imams, the “scholars,” and the lecturers. Instead of warning about shirk and kufr, they belittle their importance, possibly even recommending that one commits kufr for the sake of some passing worldly benefit or for the sake of “tolerance.” They hold firmly to what they have learned at Murjiah-run schools in the Arab world and elsewhere, teaching – in practicality – that no Muslim can truly fall into kufr, as they criticize anyone who declares the riddah of a claimant to Islam for his commission of shirk or another act of blatant kufr. However, Allah  has promised in His Book that even if the Muslims were to abandon their religion, they would be replaced by those who would remain faithful to Him and to His limits. He said, “O you who believe! Whoever of you should revert from his religion, Allah will bring forth a people He will love and who will love Him, who are humble toward the believers, powerful against the disbelievers; they strive in the cause of Allah and do not fear the blame of any blamer. That is the favor of Allah, which He bestows upon whom He wills, and Allah is Encompassing and Knowing” (Al-Maidah 54). Perhaps the fulfillment of this ayah in our time came only recently. As the masses of “Muslims” in the world have been falling day by day into kufr and riddah, into accepting only an Irja-based creed, and rejecting the clarity of the Quran and the Sunnah, it was only a matter of time that Allah would replace them with true Muslims who applied the Shari’ah, rejecting kufr and guarding themselves from riddah, without appeasing anyone who criticized them for doing so. The Islamic State rose from sincerity and was nourished by the blood of shuhada who took the fight against kufr seriously, striking at it until they met their Lord in that condition, striving in His cause. And by the grace of Allah, the Islamic State has continued to have a firm policy against kufr and riddah. It hasn’t hesitated to make takfir despite the blame of any critcs. This is because it didn’t come about to please the people, but rather, to please the Lord of creation. Thus, when the Messenger of Allah  ordered to kill anyone who leaves Islam, the Islamic State listened and obeyed, as “It is not for a believing man or a believing woman, when Allah and His Messenger have decided a matter, that they should have any choice in their affair” (Al-Ahzab 36). When the kafir media began spreading the news about the mass executions conducted by the Islamic State in Iraq and Sham, many foolish people accused it of being of the “Khawarij.” And when it burned Muath al-Kasasbeh, it was called an “un-Islamic extremist organization.” As many of the so-called “Muslim” world protested and disavowed themselves from these actions, no one brought up the kufr and riddah of which these who were executed and burned were guilty! And how could they, for they themselves didn’t know what the nullifiers of Islam were or what they included. There is not a single enemy which the Islamic State is fighting that is free of kufr. Those factions that it wages war against have committed at least one nullifier – and most have committed more than one – which is usually their supporting the kuffar against the Muslims, as well as their endeavor to replace the law of Allah with man-made legislation. And even though this fact has been brought out several times, it doesn’t benefit the Muslims unless they know that these actions are, in fact, riddah and kufr. For this reason, the ignorant “Muslims” are blaming the Islamic State for spreading fitnah and “spoiling the jihad,” though the only true jihad for Allah’s cause is what the Islamic State is actually conducting – for all of its enemies do nothing to support the establishment of Allah’s rule on earth. The only blame that should be cast is at those who are ignorant of the basics of the religion, for what the so-called “Muslim” world is suffering from today is a severe lack of knowledge concerning the nullifiers of Islam. Belittling and neglecting this matter has made it that even a simple matter that nullifies Islam – such as abandoning the salah – causes great confusion. This makes it more difficult for an honest discussion, especially in Dar al-Kufr, about nullifiers that involve clear shirk, such as supporting democracy, and other forms of blatant kufr. The Islamic State’s fight against kufr and its supporters will continue on the true frontlines of da’wah. It has succeeded in increasing the people’s knowledge and raising the public’s awareness of riddah and the various deeds leading to it through Shar’i courses, da’wah events, and media initiatives – something that has not been accomplished in Dar al-Kufr. While the Islamic State tries to protect the Muslims living in its shade from kufr and riddah, every Muslim living in Dar al-Kufr must study for himself and protect himself from these actions, and having made hijrah from Finland, I can fully attest to how difficult it is for one to do so. It is of the utmost importance for every Muslim to find out about the nullifiers of Islam, to understand them and comprehend their danger, to protect oneself and other Muslims from them, and to judge whoever is guilty of committing them as they really are. Therefore, it is essential to mention one of the very nullifiers that have cost so many individuals the price of losing their religion: refusing to make takfir of the kuffar and doubting their kufr, and this applies to anyone who refuses to make takfir of any murtadd who has fallen into one of the nullifiers. So as an example, anyone who denies that a so-called “Muslim” Member of Parliament is a murtadd kafir – as he has committed shirk with Allah in legislation – is himself a murtadd. And anyone who denies that a so-called “Muslim” in the military service of the kuffar is a murtadd kafir – as he has supported the cause of taghut – is himself a murtadd. And anyone who refuses to make takfir of those who consider the Shari’ah of Allah to be unsuitable for this era, or refuses to make takfir of those who are fighting to establish democracy, is himself a murtadd. And whoever reads this article can no longer say, “I was never told.” May Allah protect us from kufr and make it hated to us for as long as we live. May He forgive us what we have done unknowingly, and take our souls while we are in a state of Islam. Amin.