The relationship between a husband and his wife transcends the limits of this world. Due to the implications of the Hereafter, it rises beyond mere desire and pleasure. Accordingly, Allah shall place – by His permission – the believing men and women into gardens of eternity, as confirmed by His words, “Gardens of perpetual residence; they will enter them with whoever were righteous among their fathers, their spouses and their descendants” (Ar-Ra’d 23). And indeed, it is from the wisdom of Allah that He made perfection something that is impossible for humans to achieve. Instead, He made us imperfect and fallible, and this is one reason why no home is completely spared of family problems. However, some spouses – be they men or women – are not careful when it comes to exposing their homes to gossip and idle talk. We often find husbands talking about the problems that happen between them and their wives in both private and public gatherings, and also find that wives do so as well. Each of them might mention the other, in the latter’s absence, with displeasing terms. These acts, by virtue of the Shari’ah and customary practice, however, are undoubtedly dispraised. You Must Not Backbite One Another Backbiting is a disease of the tongue that only incurs ruin and loss. “Indeed, people are only cast face first into the Fire due to the harvest of their tongues” (Reported by Ahmad from Mu’adh Ibn Jabal). Allah said, “Do not spy or backbite each other. Would one of you like to eat the flesh of his brother when dead? You would detest it” (Al-Hujurat 12). This “each another” did not exclude husbands, nor did it exclude wives. Neither of them is allowed to backbite the other – even when one is right concerning his claims. Allah’s Messenger  said, “Do you know what backbiting is?” They said, “Allah and His Messenger are more knowledgeable than us.” He said, “It is mentioning your brother in terms he does not like.” They said, “What if there is something I say that is true of my brother?” He said, “If there is something you say that is true of him, you have backbitten him, and if there is nothing, then you have deceitfully lied against him” (Narrated by Muslim from Abu Hurayrah). Some women, may Allah rectify them, know backbiting and its enormity according to Allah, and they know that it is a disease of the tongue that only incurs ruin and loss. Yet they still make the exception of their husband and their co-wife, assuming that eating their flesh is allowed and that they are immune on Yawm al-Qiyamah to account and inquisition. And rarely would you hear from those listening one who openly reprimands her, deters her, warns her, or reminds her. Instead, most of those listening enjoy it, their curiosity raised about the conduct and stories of these absent spouses. In his book Riyad as-Salihin, an-Nawawi mentioned the chapter, “Prohibition of Listening to Backbiting and the Order to One Who Hears Forbidden Backbiting to Respond to It and Criticize Its Bearer; and If He Is Unable or His Words Are Not Accepted, Then He Should Leave that Gathering If Possible.” And yet, if some of them were to only limit themselves to listening! Some women help one another and support each other in this wrongdoing. When one woman complains against her husband, some of her friends react with incitement and provocation. Worse still, some women even guide their sister to the court and explain the procedure for divorce. They beautify to her the termination of her relationship with her husband, hoping to marry her off to one of their relatives or to one of their husband’s relatives – not doing anything for her out of love or in an endeavor to fix her problem – as if they have never read what Abu Dawud reported from Abu Hurayrah, that Allah’s Messenger  said, “Whoever embitters a women against her husband, or a slave against his owner, is not from us.” The same applies regarding one’s co-wife. Many women do not refrain from speaking ill of their cowives. Instead, among them is she who would go as far as to insult her co-wife and curse her in her absence due to excessive jealousy. This happens during a meeting of women or in the presence of the husband, who often has no clue as to what he can do! Should he fight off the hostility of this sharp-tongued woman against himself or against his absent wife? Indeed, Allah’s help must be sought! Every Muslim woman should remember that any disparagement of her Muslim brother or sister, even with a mere gesture, is prohibited slander, which is one of the greatest sins. It was reported that ‘Aishah i said, “O Messenger of Allah, Safiyyah is a woman” and she gestured with her hand to mean that she is short. He said, ‘You have said a word that, if ever mixed with it, would alter seawater” (Narrated by Abu Dawud). This was Umm al-Muminin who jokingly gestured with her hand ‒ instead of speaking with her tongue ‒ her disparagement of her co-wife Safiyyah i. And yet, he  warned her against her enormous act, clarifying that if this word, which none would pay attention to, were to be mixed with the water of the sea, it would alter its qualities. Further, it suffices us that he  said, “The slave says a word that displeases Allah, not giving any attention to it, until he drops with it into Jahannam” (Narrated by al-Bukhari from Abu Hurayrah). The Intelligent Person Does Not Expose the Secrets of His Home Even worse than this woman who wrongs herself is finding an otherwise intelligent man speaking about the secrets of his home to others. He exposes the secrets of his relationship with his wife, as if to remove her veil in front of other men. Indeed, this is evidence of a lack of manliness. Only one who makes a fool of himself does such a thing. Such speech should only be said to the qadi, the mufti, or a counselor who is trusted with regards to his religion and morals, and who safeguards the secrets of those of his brothers who speak to him. Noble are the morals of that tabi’i who wanted to divorce his wife, so he was asked, “Why do you want to divorce her?” He said: “I do not speak ill of my wife”. After he had divorced her, some honorable men asked him, “Why did you divorce your wife?” He said, “I am not one of those who speaks about an ajnabiyyah woman,” i.e. a woman who is neither directly related nor married to him. Spouses who speak about each other should know that every secret of their home that is revealed and every ill-spoken word is akin to tears in their clothes. The more the number of holes and the larger the holes are, the more the fabric of matrimony will inevitably decay, and no amount of patchwork will help after that. Just as homes have a sacredness to them, they also bear secrets that no muwahhid and believer should ever expose to others, even to his closest relatives. Rather, anyone who observes family matters would agree that the situation between two spouses in dispute worsens when a third party that has not been agreed upon by both spouses interferes with some excuse of finding solutions to simple conflicts. This adds fuel to the fire and matters become more complicated as a result. Someone might argue that it is only due to one’s need to breathe and vent, and nothing more. We say to that, yes, the human psyche can sometimes reach its bearable capacity. One of the spouses may find a friend to be a good listener and a good counselor. Herein lies both the illness and the treatment to such a phenomenon. The one complaining should choose carefully the person who would be told about those problems and arguments. This person should be trustworthy regarding the keeping of secrets and honest when it comes to providing advice, and he should be one who fears Allah and shows piety to Him regarding the parties involved. But when a person wakes up in the morning and recounts to everyone he meets the things that took place between the walls of his home, even to the point that the smallest details of his life become the talk of the town and the merchandise of narrators, this in fact is a scandal – and it is not merely the venting of an individual who is seeking counsel and advice from others. The husband and the wife do, of course, vent their frustrations after they have exhausted all other means. In addition to this, however, they can also resort to seeking counsel from the qadi or the mufti, as demonstrated in the Sunnah. When Khawlah Bint Tha’labah had an argument with her husband, she did not complain to anyone about him. Instead, she raised the issue to Allah’s Messenger . Then came the revelation, “Certainly has Allah heard the speech of the one who argues with you concerning her husband and directs her complaint to Allah. And Allah hears your dialogue; indeed, Allah is Hearing and Seeing” (Al-Mujadilah 1). Likewise, Hind, the wife of Abu Sufyan, did the same thing. It was reported from ‘Aishah that Hind Bint ‘Utbah said, “O Messenger of Allah, Abu Sufyan is a stingy man. He does not provide what is enough for me and my son, except what I take from him without his knowledge.” He said, “Take what would ordinarily suffice you and your son” (Narrated by al-Bukhari and Muslim).