As the soldiers of the Khilafah continue waging war on the forces of kufr, we take a glimpse at a number of recent operations conducted by the mujahidin of the Islamic State that have succeeded in expanding the territory of the Khilafah, or terrorizing, massacring, and humiliating the enemies of Allah. These operations are merely a selection of the numerous operations that the Islamic State has conducted on various fronts across many regions over the course of the last few weeks. The War on Turkey On the 28th of Rabi’ al-Akhir, a Turkish armored vehicle was destroyed in confrontations on the outskirts of the town of Qabbasin northeast of Bab. On the 3rd of Jumada al-Ula, the mujahidin sniped four Turkish soldiers and Sahwah fighters on the axis of the villages of Fawz and Abuz-Zindin. On the 7th of Jumada al-Ula, the soldiers of the Khilafah disabled a Turkish tank at Mount Dayr after targeting it with a guided missile. On the 11th of Jumada al-Ula, the istishhadi Abu Malik ash-Shami  detonated his explosive vehicle on a group of armored vehicles belonging to the murtadd Turkish army east of Bab, killing and injuring a number of murtaddin and destroying a tank. On the 15th of Jumada al-Ula, 14 Turkish soldiers and Sahwah fighters were killed when their gathering was targeted with two guided missiles east of Bab. On the 19th of Jumada al-Ula, a Turkish tank was disabled after being targeted with a guided missile at Mount ‘Aqil west of the city of Bab. On the 26th of Jumada al-Ula, the istishhadi Abul-Yaman ash-Shami  set out with his explosive vehicle towards a gathering of the Sahwah and Turkish army security foundation in the town of Susiyan located in the northern Halab countryside. He detonated his explosive vehicle in their midst, killing 8 Turkish soldiers and 60 Sahwah fighters, injuring 100 others, and destroying two Turkish armored vehicles. The Philippines On the 28th of Rabi’ al-Akhir, four members of the Filipino Crusader police were wounded in an attack by Islamic State soldiers in the neighborhood of Monkado Colony in the city of Marawi in the southern region of the Philippines. On the 13th of Jumada al-Ula, the mujahidin attacked a checkpoint with hand grenades south of the town of Datu Sawdi located south of the city of Cotabato, leading to two Filipino soldiers being killed. On the 15th of Jumada al-Ula, the soldiers of the Khilafah assassinated a spy working for the Filipino Crusader army in the area of the Mindanao state university west of the city of Marawi. On the 18th of Jumada al-Ula, an Islamic State covert unit set up an ambush in the city of Marawi targeting a patrol unit that included two officers from the Filipino Crusader army ranked major. They surprised them and succeeded in killing the two officers and taking their weapons as ghanimah, in addition to disabling the vehicle they were in. Dimashq Wilayah On the 30th of Rabi’ al-Akhir, several detachments set out towards the Nusayri army and its militias in the vicinity of the Sin military airbase in East Qalamun. Several of the murtaddin’s positions fell and were captured by the mujahidin as they attacked, and a number of Nusayri soldiers were killed. On the 3rd of Jumada al-Ula, confrontations between the soldiers of the Khilafah and the Nusayri army and its Rafidi militias continued in the area of East Qalamun towards the northeast of Dimashq. The mujahidin launched a counterattack in the vicinity of the Sin military airbase and took control of the 559th Battalion base west of the airbase. They also took control of the Mahjurah Battalion base, also referred to as the Chemical Battalion base, as well as Istirahat as-Safa, and several hills in the vicinity of the strategic Muthallath checkpoint located on the same axis. Southeast of the airbase, meanwhile, the mujahidin took control of a military battalion base also referred to as the Muhjurah Battalion base, as well as a strategic hill, in addition to several other hills. The confrontations resulted in at least 31 Nusayri soldiers and Rafidi militia fighters being killed and several military vehicles being destroyed, and the murtaddin were forced to withdraw from the area of Marmalat al-Ma’arrani north of the Sin airbase, which they had taken control of at the end of the previous month following a wide scale attack from the Muthallath checkpoint axis. Somalia On the 30th of Rabi’ al-Akhir, the soldiers of the Khilafah took three soldiers of the murtadd Somali army prisoner and later executed them. They also captured weapons as ghanimah in an ambush near the town of Qandala in the eastern part of Somalia. On the 10th of Jumada al-Ula, a group of inghimasiyyin attacked the base where the murtadd militia leader ‘Abdus-Samad Muhammad Ghulan resides in the city of Bosaso in the eastern part of Somalia, leading to four of his bodyguards being killed. On the 26th of Jumada al-Ula, the soldiers of the Khilafah assassinated an officer in the murtadd Somali army named Muhyiddin ‘Adani in the neighborhood of Karan towards the north of Mogadishu. Baghdad Wilayah On the 12th of Jumada al-Ula, an Islamic State covert unit parked a car bomb in the neighborhood of I’lam towards the south of the city, and then detonated it on a gathering of Rafidi mushrikin, leading to 19 murtaddin being killed and 34 others being wounded. On the 17th of Jumada al-Ula, the istishhadi Abu ‘Aishah al-Jamili  detonated his explosive vehicle on a gathering of Rafidah in the area of Habibiyyah east of Baghdad, leading to nearly 32 Rafidah being killed and 64 others being wounded. Raqqah Wilayah On the 14th of Jumada al-Ula, the soldiers of the Khilafah carried out an early morning raid on PKK bases and positions in the villages of Suwaydiyyah Kabirah, Wudyan, Buyud, and Turaykiyyah located north of the city of Tabaqah in the wilayah’s western countryside. Fierce clashes took place and lasted until the evening, during the course of which the soldiers of the Khilafah took control of the villages, killed 24 murtaddin, and wounded 30 others, with the rest fleeing. They also captured some light and medium weapons as ghanimah, and also disabled a BMP. Pakistan On the 18th of Jumada al-Ula, the istishhadi ‘Uthman al-Ansari  entered into the midst of a large gathering of mushrikin during one of their major shirki occasions at the Lal Shahbaz Qalandar temple in the area of Sehwan in southern Pakistan. He then detonated his explosive vest, killing more than 100 of them and injuring hundreds more. Janub Wilayah On the 18th of Jumada al-Ula, an Islamic State covert unit detonated a car bomb on a gathering of Rafidah in the area of Shurtah Khamisah south of Baghdad, killing 60 murtaddin and injuring more than 70. North Baghdad Wilayah On the 22nd of Jumada al-Ula, the inghimasiyyin Abu Bakr ash-Shami, Abu Hafsah ad-Durjani, and Abu Muhammad ash-Shami  set out towards a Rafidi Mobilization position in the 5th Regiment base in the district of Ishaqi. After entering the base, they clashed with the murtaddin and then detonated their explosive vests on those still alive, killing 45 of them – including an officer – and injuring 60 others, and damaging several vehicles and buildings inside the base. Ninawa Wilayah On the 27th of Jumada al-Ula, the istishhadiyyin Abu Salim al-‘Iraqi and Abu ‘Umar al-Maslawi  detonated their explosive vehicles on Rafidi soldiers and militia fighters on the edges of the neighborhood of Mamun in southwestern Mosul. Dozens of murtaddin were killed and wounded, a home in which they were entrenched was destroyed, an Abrams tank and three Humvees were also destroyed, and a fourth Humvee was disabled.