Indeed, if Allah blesses one of His slaves, He makes for him his external the same as his internal and makes his statements to be in accordance with his actions, and he doesn’t make him a munafiq in his belief or one whose actions contradict his speech. This is what Allah blessed the Islamic State with – due to His grace c – in many ways which can’t be counted. From the main blessi ngs is the purpose of its existence, and the reason for its formation – that is the establishment of the religion and ruling by the Shari’ah. So it opposed those who are misguided and who misguide others, from amongst the fractured and opposing factions and the parties of detriment, those who filled the earth with their declarations and theories concerning their endeavor to establish the religion and their ambition to achieve that as soon as they have authority and take power. Then it became apparent that their slogans were mere lies, and they broke their promises as soon as they achieved what they wanted, so they ruled by the legislations of the tawaghit, giving preference to the survival of their symbols and organizations as opposed to establishing the religion. Every time Allah opened for the Islamic State an area of land and they were empowered therein, its soldiers would hasten in establishing Allah’s religion and ordering the people with good and forbidding them from evil, despite their certain knowledge that this matter would incite the kuffar against them and enrage the hearts of the munafiqin in opposition to them, however they sought through it the pleasure of the Lord of the creation. The most soothing thing to the eyes of the muwahhid today is that he sees in every part of the Islamic State that the prayer is established and the zakat is collected, virtue is commanded and vice is forbidden, and that the hudud is carried out, despite the fact that the battle fronts are ignited on all sides. The lions of Islam can be seen writing history, sacrificing their blood and their lives, as they confront the campaigns of the mushrikin on the outskirts of a city, while at the same time the adhan is called and the Muslims gather for prayer despite being only a street or two away from the ignited battle fronts. Likewise, their brothers go around distributing the zakat to those eligible, and the Islamic courts continue to rule by Allah’s shari’ah in what is referred to them of cases and complaints. The hudud of Allah are carried out on those deserving of them, and the circumstances did not stop the call to good, and ordering it and forbidding evil. This is how Islam is established in its totality as Allah c ordered. So the fighter on the frontlines remains firm in his place only to defend the land that is governed by Allah’s shari’ah from the mushrikin, and he knows with certainty that his victory over his enemy is not due to the strength of his arms, nor to the accuracy of his weapon or the extent of his equipment. Rather it is the sheer grace of Allah upon him. And the more he is certain that the religion is being established as Allah has willed, the more he increases in certainty of Allah’s victory for him over his enemy. And so he establishes the religion on the axis that the imam designated him with, by waging jihad against the mushrikin and defending the Muslim lands. His brothers behind him are a company to which he falls back and a means of support. They protect the Muslims’ honor and wealth, and nothing keeps them away from the battle fronts and the outposts of ribat except their obedience to those in authority over them and that which they fulfill of the responsibility placed on their shoulders – the responsibility of establishing the religion, whose rites would not be honored, whose hudud would not be preserved, and whose rulings would not be implemented without them. So if they are called to mobilize, they mobilize, if their support is sought, they support, and if they are ordered, they obey. This is how the situation continues to proceed in every part of Dar al-Islam. The soldiers of the Islamic State establish the religion therein as long as the blessing of empowerment continues, so that if Allah afflicts them through their enemy and they are forced to fall back and regroup with the main company – with the permission of their leaders – after sacrificing greatly in repelling the mushrikin from it, they become free of blame before Allah, and go back to exerting every effort in order to regain control over the territory they withdrew from and establish the Shari’ah therein. Through that, the truthfulness of their call and their loyalty to their pledge is confirmed, such that they please their Lord and demonstrate the correctness of their manhaj. Al-Bukhari reports from Anas that the Prophet g said, “If the Hour is established and in the hand of one of you is a date palm seedling and he is able to finish planting it, then he should plant it” (Al-Adab al-Mufrad). Therefore, O soldiers of Islam and defenders of the Shari’ah, let not one of you disdain any manner of good deed, and let him not become incompetent in establishing any rite from the rites of Islam that he is capable of establishing, or calling to any of the recommended deeds, even if he is occupied with repelling the enemy, defending the lands, or guarding an outpost. And beware of delaying the establishment of the religion in its entirety after Allah has established you in the land even for a day or part of a day. And beware of undoing any of the religion’s rites and rulings in the territory you control for so much as a day or part of a day, for you will anger your Lord and assist your enemy against yourselves. Allah says, “So whoever does an atom’s weight of good will see it, and whoever does an atom’s weight of evil will see it” (Az-Zalzalah 7-8).