For years following its establishment, the Khilafah has called on Muslims around the world to rise up and wage jihad against the enemies of Allah in order to raise high His word, and to unite under the banner of the jama’ah of the Muslims. This call was met with a forceful response as several groups of mujahidin around the world quickly closed ranks and declared their bay’ah to Amirul-Muminin, with some of them uniting with other mujahid factions in their region and nominating an individual from among themselves to be appointed by the Khalifah as their amir. Thus, the Khilafah quickly expanded beyond its territories in Iraq and Sham, two lands from the lands of the Muslims that had been usurped by the Crusaders and carved up among themselves through the use of artificial borders that were upheld throughout the rule of their taghut puppets. The Khilafah expanded beyond Iraq and Sham after destroying their artificial border, uniting their territories, and establishing the Shari’ah therein, thereby demonstrating that the Ummah’s unity was not beyond reach, as long as it was pursued on the basis of the tawhid of Allah. It was this form of unity to which the Islamic State called the mujahidin – a form of unity that gave tawhid its proper due, as opposed to sacrificing it for the sake of temporary political gain – and it was this form of unity that the truthful mujahidin around the world had long awaited. So when the Khilafah made its call, the response echoed from every direction… from Sinai, Libya, Jazair, Yemen, and the Arabian Peninsula. The mujahidin were being mobilized to unite upon tawhid and to form a unified front against every mushrik in every corner of the earth, just as Allah c had commanded them, “And fight the mushrikin collectively just as they fight you collectively” (At-Tawbah 36). The war against kufr soon intensified as the mushrikin rallied in an attempt to stop the Islamic State’s expansion and bring an end to the threat it posed. But one after another the mujahid factions continued to unite under the Khilafah’s banner. Khurasan, West Africa, Somalia, East Asia, Mali… the phenomenon swept through the lands of the Muslims, and in every region where bay’ah was given, attacks would follow. The mujahidin marched forth and struck the kuffar wherever they found them, not differentiating between a Crusading mushrik and a murtadd puppet. Such was the case when eight inghimasi soldiers of the Khilafah set out to raid a Russian National Guard base near the village of Naurskaya, northwest of the Chechen city of Grozny in Qawqaz Wilayah. They used the foggy weather and the darkness of night to their advantage, advancing towards the military base, and the fact that they were armed with nothing but knives didn’t make them hesitant in fighting the disbelieving enemies of Allah. Rather, it served as a sign of their truthfulness to Him. This small group of mujahidin – who spent ten days training for the operation – then attacked the soldiers in the base with their knives and seized their weapons. They then clashed with them for several hours, killing at least six of them and injuring three others. Six of the mujahidin attained shahadah during the course of the operation, and the remaining two returned safely back to their locations. The daring raid on the Russian base in Chechnya coincided with another operation by the soldiers of the Khilafah several thousand kilometers away in Bengal. The istishhadi Abu Muhammad al-Bengali  made his way towards one of the checkpoints of the international airport in the city of Dhaka, where he entered into the midst of a group of murtadd Bengali policemen and detonated his explosive vest, killing at least three of them and injuring a number of others. Just one day later, dozens of murtadd Bengali forces personnel were killed and wounded when an explosive device was detonated on a group of them in the region of Sylhet as they were attempting to raid one of the mujahidin’s bases. The soldiers of the Khilafah also carried out an operation a week prior, with one of the mujahidin targeting a special forces base in the area of Ashkuna located in Dhaka with an explosive vest. The operations in Bengal and Qawqaz shook the ranks of the murtaddin and Crusaders, with the mujahidin in Bengal establishing their ability to confront and bleed the capabilities of the murtadd forces and target their most prominent commanders, as occurred in the operation in Sylhet, which resulted in the killing of the murtadd officer, Lieutenant Colonel Abul Kalam Azad, Director of Intelligence in Rapid Action Battalion. Likewise, the mujahidin in Qawqaz established their ability to target Russian Crusader forces and take them by surprise even in their military bases. These operations thus reminded all the sects of kufr that the battalions of the Islamic State in all corners of the earth will persist in their campaign to uproot their armies’ forces wherever they’re found, until the word of Allah is the highest and the word of the disbelievers is the lowest. May Allah accept our shuhada and replace them with those who will continue to carry the banner of tawhid after them. Amin.