Allah has praised His believing slaves, those who confirm His word and are certain of realizing what He promised. They do not abate from this certainty, whether in times of ease or in times of hardship. Rather, trials only increase them in iman – believing in His ayat and promises – and in submission to His command and wisdom, and in being content with His decision and decree. Often, a slave hopes that comfort and victory come to him from Allah in a specific way or under specific circumstances. However, the wisdom of Allah is great and much of it is unknown to us. So it was that the believers hoped to meet the caravan of Quraysh, so that they could take it easily without a fight and seize its spoils to empower them and hold them over for some time. But Allah c wanted – with His knowledge and wisdom – that the caravan should escape and that Quraysh should mobilize, determined to fight the Muslims with an army that exceeded three times the number of the Muslims. They hoped thereby to finish off the Muslims, who had begun to tarnish the standing of Quraysh, affecting them and their business dealings. Thus came to pass the Major Battle of Badr, about which Allah said, “When Allah promised you one of the two groups, that it would be yours, and you wished that the unarmed one would be yours. But Allah intended to establish the truth by His words and to eliminate the disbelievers, so that He should establish the truth and abolish falsehood, even if the criminals disliked it” (Al-Anfal 7-8). Also, Allah c made the kuffar seem few in the believers’ eyes, so that they would be encouraged to fight them and not fear them. Likewise, He made the believers seem few in the kuffar’s eyes, thereby luring them into fighting them. He c said, “When He showed them to you, when you met, as few in your eyes, and He made you appear as few in their eyes, so that Allah might accomplish a matter already destined. And to Allah all matters are returned” (Al-Anfal 44). Then, when the two sides met, the kuffar saw the Muslims as if they were double the number of kuffar. So the army of kufr was shaken, their morale declined, their strength waned, they lost hope of victory, and Allah empowered the believers with His support. He said, “Already there has been for you a sign in the two armies which met – one fighting in the cause of Allah and another of disbelievers. They saw them as if twice their own number in their eyes. But Allah empowers with His support whom He wills. Indeed in that is a lesson for those with insight” (Al ‘Imran 13). In the Battle of Ahzab, Allah c tested the believers with a hard and unexpected test, but it only increased them in having iman that the promise of Allah and His Messenger g, regarding the believers’ victory and the disbelievers’ defeat, would be realized. Allah c said, “O you who believe, remember the favor of Allah upon you when armies came to attack you and We sent upon them a wind and armies (of angels), which you did not see” (Al-Ahzab 9). Ibn Kathir said, “Allah c is referring here to His favor, bounty, and generosity to His believing slaves when He repelled their enemies and defeated them in the year they gathered and rallied against them. That was the year of the Khandaq (Trench) in Shawwal of the fifth year after the hijrah… The mushrikin came and camped east of Madinah, near Uhud, and a group of them camped on the high ground of Madinah, as Allah c said, ‘When they came at you from above you and from below you’ (Al-Ahzab 10). Allah’s Messenger g went out with between seven-hundred and three-thousand Muslims, putting their backs to Sal’ [a mountain at the market of Madinah] and their faces towards the enemy.” This mobilization of the kuffar was a hard trial for the Muslims. Ibn Kathir continues, “The situation was difficult and harsh, and the condition was tight, as Allah c said, ‘There the believers were tested and shaken with a severe shaking’ (Al-Ahzab 11). They remained there, besieging the Prophet g and his companions for nearly a month.” Then came the support of Allah c, after that hardship and adversity, in an amazing way that showed Allah’s ability, power, might, wisdom, and His kindness to the believers. He c said, “Allah repelled those who disbelieved, in their rage, not having obtained any good. And sufficient was Allah for the believers in battle, and ever is Allah Powerful and Exalted in Might” (Al-Ahzab 25). And Allah c empowered the believers with victory over and massacre of the Jews of Bani Quraydhah, and then blessed the believers with many spoils, which He caused them to inherit from Bani Quraydhah. He c said, “He brought down those who supported them among the People of the Book from their fortresses and cast terror into their hearts [so that] a party you killed, and you took captive a party. And He caused you to inherit their land and their homes and their properties and a land which you have not trodden. And ever is Allah, over all things, competent” (Al-Ahzab 26-27). Indeed, it is Allah’s promise that He has fulfilled for His slaves after He tried and tested them, until the munafiqin left their ranks and the believers increased in solidarity and trust in that promise. So victory came to them from where they did not expect. We ask Allah to grant victory, honor, and consolidation to His slaves the mujahidin, and all praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the creation.