Indeed, the Islamic state is the only means to establishing the religion and spreading justice among the people, a nd the establishment of justice is a matter which Allah c obligated upon His creation and for which He made the implementation of His shari’ah a conditi on. With the absence of this religion and the implementation of something other than Allah’s shari’ah, kufr becomes dominant and oppression prevails, and in order to cure this, the people pursue various paths. Among them are those who view that the establishment of the religion – in addition to being a shar’i obligation – ensures the establishment of justice, and these are the ones who submit to the Lord of the creation. And among them are those who endeavor to establish anything they view as being just, regardless of how that’s accomplished, and they do so purely for worldly reasons, and these are the corrupters from among the callers to reform on every false path and religion. The bulk of human beings are all the same in desiring the establishment of justice in the society in which they live, and they see this as a means to warding off the oppression that might be committed against them by others and as a means to opening the way for them to live their worldly lives in greater happiness and security. For this reason, we find much that has been written by the philosophers and public speakers of the Jahili era on matters of governance, due to it being a means to establishing justice, and a means for the human being to attain happiness. Many terms emerged hovering around the concept of “just governance” and “the ideal city,” which the people dream of discovering and residing in, and countless wars and revolutions have tak en place in various nations in order to a chieve these goals. And with the people being heedless of the methodology which their Creator clarified for them in order to establish justice among themselves and attain happiness in both the worldly life and the Hereafter, they continue to differ among themselves, and there continue to appear among them misguiding leaders, each of whom claims that he is the only one who knows the path to achieving justice, and that he and his party are the only ones who are capable of establishing justice in the land. And when their opinions on justice conflict with the opinions and interests of others, there remains nothing but the weapon as a judge between them, as there is no principle they agree upon which they can refer to in order to resolve the dispute. They Said, “We Are but Reformers” This is the condition of many of those who claim to follow Allah’s prophets and messengers p while having abandoned the Sunnah and treaded the path of whims and heresies, thus straying from the straight path. Every one of them followed a deviant path upon which was a shaytan calling to Hellfire, every one of them claimed to have inherited the prophetic knowledge and to be a defender of the Shari’ah, and every one of them gave his followers hope that he would return the religion to its former status as it was in the time of the prophets, and that he would even achieve for them a level of victory, consolidation, implementation of the scripture, and establishment of the religion that had not been realized for those prophets. And in the end, there emerged among them several sects. Just as the Christians broke up into 71 groups and the Jews broke up into 72, those who claim to be from the ummah of Muhammad g broke up into 73 groups, all of which are upon misguidance except for the group that proceeds upon the prophetic methodology – that which the Prophet g and his noble companions were upon. Anyone who looks at the history of many of these groups will find that the basis of their deviation in methodology which led to them completely leaving the religion was that their call to return to the prophetic methodology was combined with their da’wah being built on corrupt principles, and that they endeavored to establish a state that greatly differed from the state of the Prophet g. Their deviance then continued to increase and their misguided path continued to take them further away from the straight path, and they would add to and subtract from the affairs of the religion in a manner that would serve their misguided methodology, to the point that their various religions differed from the religion of Islam, though they had initially come out seeking to return it to what the first predecessors were upon. The Rafidah: A Long History of Deviance The Rafidah – if it is truly one of the first sects to appear – are a continuation of the deviation which started with some people who became fanatical for the Prophet’s g household, believing that the religion would never return to how it was before the revelation ceased, and that it would never be preserved – until Yawm al-Qiyamah – except by men from the family of the Prophet and his offspring. So there appeared among the Shi’ah a doctrine of “regency” in the religion, binding it to ‘Ali h and coming up with a lie to the effect that the Prophet g directly stipulated that he should be the Khalifah after him, as they invented the bid’ah of favoring him over all other Sahabah, and specifically over the two shaykhs: Abu Bakr and ‘Umar. The matter evolved into exaggerating the status of ‘Ali, even to the point of deifying him in both his life and after his death, and the issue of the imamah (leadership) of Ahl al-Bayt became a principle in their religion. Thereby, they cannot see a way to restoring the religion except through its leadership by one of the descendants of Fatimah i. This heretical trend in their alleged “reform,” which they have imposed upon themselves, brought them, whenever one of their imams died, to claim his reincarnation or deny his death. They even ascribed a nonexistent son to one of their imams, in order to connect the father-to-son links of the imamah’s chain, when it came to an impasse with the absence of children for the eleventh imam, al-Hasan al-‘Askari. So they made up the lie of a “twelfth imam,” whom they named Muhammad al-Mahdi Ibn al-Hasan al-‘Askari, so as to hide the shame of their deviance in the issue of regency, for the world became absent of an heir who fulfilled their lineal and “legal” conditions. And they devised the story of his taking leave into the vault of Samarra until today, so that their heretical, shirki, and deviant way should continue, claiming that he will appear in the end of time to fill the world with justice, just as it was filled with tyranny. A Religion Manufactured in the Service of a Deviant Methodology Ever since the Shi’ah first appeared and up to what we see today of the shirk and kufr committed by their various sects, evil scholars who follow them have been altering the religion of Islam, which they initially claimed to be keen to safeguard and protect from any alleged deviance. They added to it many things from the religions of the People of the Book and the pagans, as they rejected whatever does not correspond to their desires and corrupt way. They ascribed lies to Allah’s Messenger g and his household, filling volumes with such false reports to trick the naïve and unaware. Even the noble Quran was not safe from their kufr and doubts, for they claimed that it contains additions and deficiency, all because they found ayat that refute their claims. Due to the total separation of their methodology from that of Ahlus-Sunnah wal-Jama’ah, they began associating more with deviant sects and false religions, choosing from them whatever aligned with their corrupt principles in creed and law – eventually producing for themselves the religion of Rafd in complete opposition to the religion of Islam. Whoever refers back to the history of the Shi’i sects will find that they have always been interested in establishing what they claimed to be “the Islamic State,” but only for the purpose of bringing people into their false religion, which they allege to be the religion revealed to Allah’s Messenger g and inherited by their absent imams to convey to mankind. Only Allah c knows the number of those killed – of their followers and of Muslims – who were killed because of these goals. Such were their wars against the Muslims, which have continued without end for the past fourteen centuries. As such, the entire religion of Rafd developed from a rotten root and corrupt theory of reform, which they saw as necessary for achieving “justice,” towards which they claim to be working. And this false reform was taken by some of the early Shi’ah from the Jews, taught to them by someone like Ibn Saba, and based upon their belief in the regency of ‘Ali Ibn Abi Talib over the religion after the revelation ceased – just as Yusha’ Ibn Nun was the regent for Bani Israil after Musa n. This idea developed over the centuries, coupled with struggles between the sects of the Shi’ah and their enemies, as well as disputes between the Shi’i sects themselves, with the many modifications of their religion by their evil scholars who legislated beside Allah. The result was this filthy mixture of beliefs seen today in the different sects of the Shi’ah. Organizations and Factions Following the Rafidah This long-term development of the Rafidi religion gives us a living example of what can happen if ways that have deviated from the straight path are pursued when calling to establish the Islamic State. This shows us that when they make these deviations obligatory for the people to follow, as part of establishing their religion, then their end will be that they inevitably alter the original religion to correspond with their heresy. This is the case in which we find many such calls to establishing the religion and ruling by the Shari’ah today. The deviations which began at the beginning continue to be very distant from the prophetic methodology, even to the point of waging war against that methodology, which Allah and His Messenger g were pleased with. And with Allah’s permission, we will strive, in the coming articles of this series, to give more examples of this understanding, explaining the consequences of the paths of misguidance and comparing that to the prophetic methodology, which the Islamic State follows today, by the grace of Allah.