Just as the blood of the kafir is halal to shed,1 so too is the kafir’s wealth halal to take. Allah’s Messenger g said, “I have been commanded to fight all people until they testify that there is nothing worthy of worship except Allah and that I am the Messenger of Allah, establish the prayer, and pay the zakah. If they do that, then they have guarded their blood and their wealth from me except by the right of Islam; and their account is upon Allah” (Reported by al-Bukhari and Muslim from Ibn ‘Umar). His words, that “they have guarded their blood and their wealth from me” indicates the clear permissibility of spilling their blood and taking their wealth until they accept Islam. This hadith also shows the relationship between fighting and taking wealth, as all kuffar who are not under the contract of dhimmah are enemies from whom ghanimah is taken. Allah c said, “Indeed the disbelievers are a clear enemy to you” (An-Nisa 101). He also said, “So consume from what you have taken of ghanimah, as it is halal and good” (Al-Anfal 69). As for those who claim to be bound by contracts which they have made with the kuffar, then they should know that, besides the kuffar of every nation today breaking any possible covenant with the Muslims by waging war with them, imprisoning them, and otherwise transgressing against them, Allah has nullified every contract made with the mushrikin, saying, “Allah and His Messenger convey their disavowal to those of the mushrikin with whom you made covenants” (At-Tawbah 1). He then mentioned the order to kill all those who claim partners for Allah, saying, “So when the sacred months have passed, then kill the mushrikin wherever you find them. Take them, surround them, and sit at every outpost, lying in wait for them” (At-Tawbah 5). This was clarified in His saying, “How can there be any covenant for the mushrikin, according to Allah and His Messenger, except those with whom you made covenants at the Sacred Masjid?” (At-Tawbah 7), which is a question in the meaning of a statement, as at-Tabari mentioned, “It merely means, ‘They have no covenant.’” As for those who make covenants at al-Masjid al-Haram, then those were the people of Makkah, meaning Quraysh, in the days of the Prophet g – and one of his final commands before his death was, “Expel the mushrikin from the Arabian Peninsula” (Reported by al-Bukhari and Muslim from Ibn ‘Abbas), so how then can there be a covenant with them at the Sacred Masjid?! Thereafter, Allah allowed certain covenants to be offered to the mushrikin. The first covenant is the offer of safe passage, called istijarah. Allah said, “If any of the mushrikin seek your protection, then protect him until he hears the word of Allah. Then guide him safely away. That is because they are a people who do not know” (At-Tawbah 6). The second covenant is that of the jizyah, which is paid by the People of the Book after they accept the conditions of saghar (belittlement). Allah c said, “Fight those who do not believe in Allah nor the Last Day, nor do they forbid what Allah and His Messenger forbade, nor do they practice the religion of truth – of those who were given the Book – until they pay the jizyah willingly while they are belittled” (At-Tawbah 29). Aside from istijarah and the jizyah, the only relationship the Muslim has to the kuffar is that of the sword, i.e. physically waging jihad against them. And any attack on the kuffar, including that which is financial, is jihad. In this regard, any wealth taken from the kuffar through deception or defeat is considered ghanimah. Allah’s Messenger g said, “War is deception” (Reported by al Bukhari and Muslim by Jabir Ibn ‘Abdillah). Practical examples of this from the Sunnah are the many raids ordered by the Prophet g against the trade caravans of the mushrikin. In fact, the Battle of Badr was initially intended to be a raid on the caravan of Quraysh, led by Abu Sufyan, as Ka’b Ibn Malik explained that, “Allah’s Messenger g only went out [that day] intending the caravan of Quraysh” (Reported by al-Bukhari and Muslim), and Jabir Ibn ‘Abdillah said, “Allah’s Messenger g dispatched us with 300 riders, and our amir was Abu ‘Ubaydah Ibn al-Jarrah, in order to ambush the caravan of Quraysh” (Reported by al-Bukhari and Muslim). Whether the financial damage is on an individual kafir or the cause of perpetual loss to a business, the Muslim in Dar al Kufr has the opportunity to follow this blessed sunnah, striking terror by stalking the kuffar and causing them economic harm. There should be no misunderstanding about the excellence of this deed, as taking this wealth is in accordance with the command of Allah c, “So consume from what you have taken of ghanimah, as it is halal and good” (Al-Anfal 69), and obedience to Allah is an obligation upon every Muslim. And as this wealth is ghanimah, one-fifth of it (the khums) should be set aside and given to the Khalifah or to an official representative of the Khalifah for those who are able. Allah c said, “Know that whatever you took of ghanimah, then to Allah belongs one-fifth thereof and to the Messenger” (Al-Anfal 41), and the representative of Allah’s Messenger g is the Khalifah. Ibn Qudamah mentioned in al-Mughni that the opinion of ash-Shafi’i, al-Awza’i, ‘Umar Ibn ‘Abdil-‘ Aziz, and […] of Ahmad, regarding a group of Muslims who enter Dar al-Kufr – [even] without the permission of the imam – and perform a raid in which they receive ghanimah, is that they are to reserve the khums and distribute the rest among themselves, due to the generality of Allah’s saying, “Know that whatever you took of ghanimah, then to Allah belongs onefifth thereof…” (Al-Anfal 41). However, whoever kills a kafir – for which he has proof of his killing him – then to him belongs all of his salab, and the khums is not taken from it. Allah’s Messenger g said on the Day of Hunayn, “Whoever kills a kafir, then to him belongs his salab.” So Abu Talhah killed twenty men that day and took all of their aslab (Reported by Abu Dawud from Anas Ibn Malik). The “salab” (pl. aslab) is whatever the kafir possesses at the time and place he is killed. This includes his clothing, jewelry, all kinds of weapons, gold, silver, currencies, as well as the vehicle he was using, and so forth. Abu Qatadah narrated a story of when he killed a kafir on the Day of Hunayn, after which the Prophet g said, “Whoever kills someone and has a proof of it, then to him belongs his salab.” And when it was determined that another Muslim took the salab from the kafir whom Abu Qatadah killed, the other Muslim asked the Prophet to let him keep it, so Abu Bakr as-Siddiq h said, “By Allah! He g would not transgress against one of Allah’s lions, who fights for Allah and His Messenger, by giving you his salab!” Allah’s Messenger g agreed, saying, “He spoke the truth, so give it to [Abu Qatadah]” (Reported by al Bukhari and Muslim). When Allah’s Messenger g ordered that a spy for the mushrikin be followed and killed, Salamah Ibn al-Akwa’ set out and killed him. So the Prophet n gave him his salab (Reported by al-Bukhari and Muslim), and in another narration, he said, “To him belongs all of his salab.” Since Salamah was alone, there was no need for proof of his kill, so the one who kills a kafir on a dark street or in an alleyway, while no one else is around, does not need evidence of his kill in order to take the salab. As for the wealth of a business or any wealth which was taken through deception, instead of killing an individual, then that is not salab. Rather, this is ghanimah that must be divided accordingly. The Muslim in Dar al-Kufr must constantly be on guard from the widespread evils that may affect his heart, and one of the most dangerous of evils is nifaq (hypocrisy), which can creep into the heart of anyone who wrongly views his relationship to the kuffar. Allah’s Messenger g said, “Whoever died and did not wage ghazw, nor did he incite himself to do so, has died upon a branch of nifaq” (Reported by Muslim from Abu Hurayrah). Indeed, the ghazwah is a sure way to show one’s bara from shirk and its people, as it is to invade their lands and damage them with the loss of life and wealth. Abu Hilal al-‘Askari, an early scholar of the Arabic language, said that “ghazw is only waged in enemy lands… the original purpose of ghazw is to retrieve ghanimah and obtain wealth” (Al-Furuq al-Lughawiyyah). So it is not enough to defend Muslim land and incite oneself to do so, but one must hate the kuffar and long for causing them harm in their own lands. And this must be done with the pure intention of seeking to make the word of Allah the highest, even if the benefits of ghanimah are a result of one’s blessed operation for Allah’s cause. The Prophet g said, “Whoever fights for the word of Allah to be the highest, then he is [fighting] for Allah’s cause” (Reported by al-Bukhari and Muslim from Abu Musa). May Allah, the Most Generous, make the kuffar’s wealth, weapons, women, and children ghanimah for those who strive for His cause.