In the Name of Allah, the Gracious, the Merciful. “Alif. Lam. Mim. Do the people think that they will be left to say, ‘We believe,’ and they will not be tried? And We have certainly tried those before them, and Allah will surely make known those who are truthful, and He will surely make known the liars” (Al-‘Ankabut 1-3). All praise belongs to Allah, who honors Islam through His support, disgraces shirk by His might, manages affairs by His command, and leads the disbelievers to their doom by His plotting. He has determined that the days [of victory] alternate [between the believers and the disbelievers] through His justice, making the final outcome belong to the pious by His grace. And blessings and peace be upon the one by whose sword Allah raised the beacon of Islam. To proceed: Here you have a new lesson, which I am sending through these words. Here you have a pulsing beat, which I am presenting from the bottom of my heart. Here, from a soldier who stands on the threshold of war and the humming of battle, from Abu Mus’ab az-Zarqawi to whoever sees this from the people of these times and those men of honor… The suffering of this downcast ummah does not cease to pain me. The ghosts of this defamed ummah do not cease to haunt me. It is this ummah of great glory and distinct honor, slapped with all kinds of debasement by the hands of treachery, so that the quilt of humiliation and insult were laid down, the cups of subdual and betrayal were drunk, and the Ummah was held back from its duties and functions, obstructed from its dreams and its hopes. This sickness has devastated the entire body, which was thrown to the ground and tied to a post, so the beasts and wolves of the world rushed madly upon it, as its limbs were cut to pieces by claws and canines. Such was the saying of the Prophet g, as reported by Ahmad and Abu Dawud from Thawban h, that he said, “Allah’s Messenger g said, ‘The nations will soon call upon each other from every horizon, just as diners call each other to eat from a dish.’ We said, ‘O Messenger of Allah, will it be because we are few on that day?’ He said, ‘On that day, you will be many, but you will be scum, like the scum of a flowing torrent. Awe will be removed from the hearts of your enemy, and wahn (feebleness) will be put into your hearts.’ We said, ‘What is the wahn?’ He said, ‘The love of life and the hatred of death.’” In another version from Ahmad, he g said, “And your hatred of combat.” Know, O people of Islam, that being tested is part of a long story, since “La ilaha illallah” was revealed to this earth, so the prophets and truthful were tested, as were the muwahhid imams. And whoever laid himself bare to carry the word, “La ilaha illallah,” supporting it and establishing it on the earth, then he must pay the price of this honor, which is exhaustion, fatigue, and being tested. So where are you in relation to this? The path is one of exhaustion, a path upon which Adam became weary, upon which Nuh lamented, upon which Ibrahim was cast into the fire, upon which Isma’il was laid down to be slaughtered, upon which Yusuf was sold for a miserable price and stayed for some years in prison, upon which Zakariyya was sawn in half, upon which Yahya was decapitated, upon which Ayyub suffered great harm, upon which Dawud wept exceedingly, upon which ‘Isa walked with wild animals, and upon which Muhammad g endured poverty and all kinds of hardship… and yet you prosper with entertainment and play?! Allah c tests some of the creation with others thereof, and just as the believer is tested with the kafir, so too is the kafir tested with the believer. This kind of being tested is the common denominator between all of them. Allah c said, “Blessed is He in whose hand is dominion, and He is over all things competent; He who created death and life to test you as to which of you is best in deed – and He is the Exalted in Might, the Forgiving” (Al-Mulk 1-2). The Prophet g narrated that his Lord b said, “I only sent you so that I would test you and that others would be tested by you” (Reported by Muslim from ‘Iyad Ibn Himar). What we have learned from the Quran and the Sunnah is that some of the prophets were killed and mutilated by their enemies, like Yahya n, and that some of their people attempted to kill them, but they came out unharmed, like Ibrahim, who emigrated to Sham, and ‘Isa, who was raised to the heavens. We find some believers are faced with the worst kinds of torture; some were thrown into fiery trenches, some were martyred, and others continue to live in anguish, suffering, and oppression. Where, then, is Allah’s promise of support in this life, after they have been cast out, killed, or tortured?! Being tested is part of Allah’s decree for all of His creation, though it increases in severity for the best of those chosen to receive Allah’s attention. Specific to this are the mujahidin, for they shall inevitably be tested, receiving the lessons of purification, discipline, and refinement. It was reported from Sa’d Ibn Abi Waqqas h, that he said, “O Messenger of Allah, which people are the most severe in being tested?” He g said, “The prophets, then the righteous believers, then those thereafter. A person is tested according to his religion. So if his religion is firm, he is increased in being tested. But if there is softness in his religion, the test is made easier for him. And the believer will not cease being tested until he walks on the earth without any sin.” Al-Bayhaqi reported in Shu’ab al-Iman, at-Tabarani in al-Mu’jam al-Kabir, and Ibn Sa’d in at-Tabaqat from ‘Abdillah Ibn Iyas Ibn Abi Fatimah, from his father, from his grandfather, who said, “I was sitting with Allah’s Messenger g, and he g said, ‘Who would like to be healthy and not become ill?’ We said, ‘We would, O Messenger of Allah.’ He g said, ‘What?!’ and we could see it in his face. He then said, ‘Would you like to be like galloping donkeys?’ They said, ‘No, O Messenger of Allah.’ He said, ‘Would you not like to be people who are tested and people who are forgiven?’ They said, ‘Indeed, O Messenger of Allah.’ So Allah’s Messenger g said, ‘Then by Allah, indeed Allah does test the believer, and He only tests him due to His care for him. And he has with Him a status, which he will not reach with any of his deeds, except that he will be afflicted with tests the likes of which would bring him to that status.’” At-Tirmidhi reported from Jabir h that Allah’s Messenger g said, “The people of good health will wish, on Yawm al-Qiyamah, that their skins were cut up with scissors due to what they see of the reward given to the people who were tested.” Allah’s Messenger g said, “The healthiest of people in the Dunya will be brought forth on Yawm al-Qiyamah, so Allah b will say, ‘Immerse him into the Fire.’ Then he will be brought to Him, so He will say, ‘O son of Adam, were you ever blessed? Did you ever see any comfort? Were you ever happy?’ He will respond, ‘No, by Your might!’ Then He will say, ‘Return him to the Fire.’ Then the most severely tested of people in the Dunya will be brought forth, so He f will say, ‘Immerse him into Jannah.’ Then he will be brought to Him, so He will say, ‘O son of Adam, have you ever seen something you disliked?’ He will respond, ‘No, by Your might, I have never seen anything which I dislike” (Reported by Ahmad from Anas Ibn Malik). Shaqiq al-Balkhi said, “Whoever sees the reward of hardship will not desire to come out of it.” Allah b legislated jihad in completion of the laws of the religion, elevating its status until it became the peak of divine servitude, while making therein hardships and tests that souls detest and from which a person’s disposition cowers. Then, He made it closely related to the essence of iman and the hidden aspect of tawhid, so that no one would seek it except someone true to iman and strong in conviction. “The believers are only the ones who have believed in Allah and His Messenger and then doubt not but strive with their properties and their lives in the cause of Allah. It is those who are the truthful” (Al-Hujurat 15). So the reality of jihad stands for polishing the soul and preparing it for its Lord and Creator by fulfilling His commands and proceeding upon His promises. And this cannot be unless the way is paved with hardships and trials. As such, Allah b says, “If Allah had willed, He could have taken vengeance upon them, but to test some of you by means of others. And those who are killed in the cause of Allah – never will He waste their deeds. He will guide them and mend their condition and admit them to Jannah, which He has made known to them” (Muhammad 4-6), and He said, “If Allah had willed, they would not have fought each other, but Allah does what He intends” (Al-Baqarah 253). Ibn Kathir commented on this ayah, saying, “This means that He gives something of a test through which His ally will appear and His enemy will be exposed. Thereby, both the patient believer and the deceptive munafiq will be recognized. This is in reference to the Day of Uhud, in which Allah tested the believers, so their iman, patience, and obedience to Allah and His Messenger g and steadfastness appeared, just as the veils covering the munafiqin were removed and their opposition and refusal of jihad, and their betrayal of Allah and His Messenger g became clear.” Reflect, O slaves of Allah, over His c saying, “Of the people is he who worships Allah on an edge. If he is touched by good, he is reassured by it; but if he is struck by trial, he turns on his face. He has lost the Dunya and the Akhirah. That is the manifest loss” (Al-Hajj 11). In his tafsir, al-Baghawi reported from Ibn ‘Abbas k “that a man of the desert Arabs believed in Allah’s Messenger g. Then, when a son was born to him after Islam, his herd reproduced, and his wealth increased, he said, ‘This is a good religion;’ so he believed and remained steadfast. But when a son was not born to him, his herd did not reproduce, his wealth did not increase, and he was afflicted by drought or sterility, he said, ‘This is a bad religion;’ so he left his religion, leaving it due to his kufr and his stubbornness.” The author of “adh-Dhilal” said, “Souls must be trained for tests and the trial of determination in the battle of truth, which is filled with dangers, hardships, hunger, and loss of wealth, lives, and fruits. This being ing tested is inevitable, so that the believers can fulfill their services to the creed, which will settle into their souls according to how much they spent in its cause, and that they will not be shaken at the first difficulty. This servitude is the precious cost of putting the dearness of this creed into the hearts of its people before it can be found in the hearts of others. And every time they feel pain in its cause, and whenever they spend for its sake, it becomes dearer to them and they become more rightful to it. Likewise, others will not ascertain its value until they see its people being tested and their patience during the test, and there is no escape from being tested. This is also to strengthen the resolve of the companions of creed, for the hardships cause a hidden strength and energy to rage. And there are windows and conduits in the hearts of the believers that are opened, and which they could not have known existed if it were not for their enduring these hardships.” Ash-Shafi’i r was asked, “Which is better for the believer, to be tested or to have consolidation?” He said, “Mercy to you! Can there be consolidation without first being tested?” Safwan Ibn ‘Umar said, “I was a governor over Hims when I met an old man from Damascus whose eyebrows had dropped. He was on his camel, riding towards battle. I said to him, ‘O uncle, Allah has made an excuse for you.’ So he lifted his eyebrows and said, ‘O nephew, Allah has mobilized us, whether we are light or heavy.’” Indeed, Allah tests whomever He loves. Indeed, having patience upon such difficult days has A result, and patience is only for one of esteem So Allah will grant victory soon and afterwards give, To one like you, from fatigue moments of tranquility. The author of “adh-Dhilal” said, “Indeed, iman is not a word that is spoken, but it is a reality full of rendered servitude, a trust full of burdens, a jihad that requires patience, and an effort that requires endurance. So it is not enough that people say, ‘We believe,’ and are then left to this claim. Not until they are exposed to fitnah upon which they remain firm and out of which they come with pure, sincere hearts, just as gold is tried by fire in order to separate it from worthless metals that cling to it. This is the basic linguistic meaning of the word [i.e. fatana yaftinu], with what all that entails, and such is what fitnah does with the hearts. This fitnah for iman is an established principle and norm that is balanced by Allah c. ‘And We have certainly tried those before them, and Allah will surely make known those who are truthful, and He will surely make known the liars’ (Al-‘Ankabut 3). And iman is Allah’s trust on the earth. No one bears it except those who are worthy of it and who are able to bear it, having their hearts prepared for it alone, and those who give it preference over relaxation, meekness, safety, security, entertainment, and whatever appeals to them. It is the trust of the Khilafah on the earth, of directing people to the path of Allah and to realizing His word in this life. So it is a noble trust, and it is a weighty trust. And it is part of Allah’s command that people must shoulder themselves, and it requires a special kind of person to have patience while being tested.” Thus, the group that fights, having traversed the path of waging jihad for Allah’s cause, must grasp the nature of the battle, and what it demands for reaching its goal, that this path must be paved by the blood of its righteous, and that this way requires losing loved ones and friends and leaving comrades and homelands. Such did the Prophet’s g companions, who are the best of the creation after the prophets, endure the bitterness of hijrah and the loss of wealth, family, and homes, all for the cause of Allah… so where are we in relation to them?! All that this group must do is have patience upon this chosen path, to seek reward with Allah for what they may be afflicted with of losing leaders and individuals, to continue on their way, and know that this is the sunnah of Allah b and that Allah chooses His righteous slaves from this ummah. And they must not be in a hurry for support, for indeed Allah’s promise is inevitably coming. It befits the Muslim to know that following the truth and having patience thereon is the shortest way to receiving support and achieving victory, even if the way is long – filled with obstacles and traversed by few – and that deviating from the truth only results in disappointment, even if its way is easy and its traveler thinks victory is near – for those are only delusions. Allah c said, “This is My path, which is straight, so follow it; and do not follow other ways, for you will be separated from His way. This has He instructed you that you may become righteous” (Al-An’am 153). This is jihad… a summit… a fruit… it comes after a lengthy patience and an extended stay in the land of battle, waiting to lure in one’s enemies and suffer their evils. This stay shall continue for many months and consecutive years. And if you do not taste of these pains, Allah will never grant you victory through His support, because this support only comes with patience. Ibn Taymiyyah said, “Leadership in the religion is only achieved through patience and certainty.” Notions of the truth and the truthfulness of creed and tawhid remain as lifeless bodies in a world of phantoms, with no spirit entering them unless carried by truthful and patient people, who will bear the burdens and hardships of this path. They find torment pleasant and fatigue sweet. They are not pleased with anything but death in order to give these notions life, being practically implemented in the real world, not like those who embellish these notions in mere philosophical and theoretical frames, delivering eloquent sermons that are far from the spirit of action, truthfulness, and execution. Islam today is in dire need of truthful, patient men who are inclined to work hard, who find pleasure in toil and find comfort in pain, quietly translating the needs of this stage into action… men with truthful souls, high purposes, and strong resolutions that only know how to work towards implementation, so they refuse to be entangled by weariness, entrapped by boredom, or to spend their hopes in the way of debate and arguments. So roll up your sleeve and lay bare an earnest arm, and be patient during the hardships on this path, for it is said, “Failed has he who does not prepare patience for every test, gratitude for every blessing, and does not know that with hardship comes ease.” O mercy on my soul, and ambitions have not raised us To the gardens, and the last of people is one repentant; To full-breasted maidens, confined from the eyes, and the shade of Tuba, the scent of perfume flowing, To lanterns of gold, hung in honor On the throne of my Lord for those killed and were not absent. Allah c said, “Nor do they spend an expenditure, small or large, or cross a valley but that it is registered for them, that Allah may reward them for the best of what they were doing” (At-Tawbah 121). In his tafsir of this ayah, at-Tabari reported that Qatadah said, “A people did not increase in distance from their families for the cause of Allah, except that they increased in nearness to Allah.” So the matter belongs to Allah, the first of it and the last of it, and we are nothing but His slaves, striving to achieve servitude to Him. And from the perfection of servitude is that we know and have complete certainty, untouched by doubt, that Allah’s promise will inevitably be realized. However, we might not know the reality of the matter due to a wisdom known only to Allah, and support or victory may be delayed just as a test and trial. Allah the Great was truthful, saying, “Incumbent upon Us was support of the believers” (Ar-Rum 47). And He c promised His muwahhid slaves with support, giving consolidation to those who are patient, and He explained that what came to the previous nations of victory, steadfastness, and consolidation in the land was due entirely to their patience and their reliance upon Him. He c said, “We caused the people who had been oppressed to inherit the eastern and western regions of the land, which We had blessed. And the good word of your Lord was fulfilled for Bani Israil because of what they had patiently endured. And We destroyed what Pharaoh and his people were producing and what they had been building” (Al-A’raf 137). And Allah c made what happened to His prophet Yusuf n end in attaining might and consolidation in the land, after a time of alienation and what happened in the chief ’s palace. That only came to be through his patience and taqwa. “Indeed, he who fears Allah and is patient, then indeed, Allah does not allow to be lost the reward of those who do good” (Yusuf 90). He c also connected success with patience, as He b said, “O you who believe, persevere and endure and remain stationed and fear Allah that you may be successful” (Al ‘Imran 200), and He c mentioned that the good end in the Dunya is for the patient and pious. “So be patient. Indeed, the best outcome is for the righteous” (Hud 49). We know with certainty that the promise of Allah shall never be broken, and we are only addressing this issue because of our limited view, which has us see only one type of support, which is that of an apparent support towards victory – though that support is not necessarily what He promised His prophets, messengers, and believing slaves. Indeed, support is manifested in different forms, which weak and agitated souls cannot see.