As the soldiers of the Khilafah continue waging war on the forces of kufr, we take a glimpse at a number of recent operations conducted by the mujahidin of the Islamic State that have succeeded in expanding the territory of the Khilafah, or terrorizing, massacring, and humiliating the enemies of Allah. These operations are merely a selection of the numerous operations that the Islamic State has conducted on various fronts across many regions over the course of the last few weeks. Jazair Wilayah On the 28th of Jumada al-Ula, one of the soldiers of the Khilafah in Jazair  set out and conducted an istishhadi operation using an explosives-laden bag with which he targeted a police station belonging to the murtadd Jazairi police force in the middle of the city of Qusantinah. Salahuddin Wilayah On the 1st of Jumada al-Akhirah, three inghimasi soldiers of the Khilafah, Abu Salih al-‘Iraqi, Abul-Yaman al-‘Iraqi, and Abu Fuad al-‘Iraqi , set out with their explosive vests towards an intelligence base belonging to the Rafidi Salam Detachments militia on the outskirts of the city of Samarra. They infiltrated the base, following which fierce clashes broke out that led to all those inside the base being killed. The inghimasiyyin then confronted a Rafidi convoy of reinforcements, and after exhausting their supply of ammo, they detonated their explosive vests on the murtaddin. The blessed operation resulted in 27 murtaddin being killed and wounded, and among those dead was the intelligence base officer, Abu Mahdi. This was in addition to the buildings and vehicles suffering an extensive amount of damage. On the 9th of Jumada al-Akhirah, two soldiers of the Khilafah, Abu ‘Abdillah ash-Shami and Abu Suraqah al-‘Iraqi , carried out an inghimasi operation targeting a gathering of Rafidi Mobilization fighters in the village of Hajjaj south of Bayji. They clashed with the murtaddin and then detonated their explosive vests after exhausting their supply of ammo, leading to at least 40 murtaddin being killed and dozens more being wounded. East Asia On the 8th of Jumada al-Akhirah, more than 20 soldiers of the Filipino Crusader army were killed and a number of others were wounded in confrontations with the soldiers of the Khilafah south of the city of Marawi. On the 13th of Jumada al-Akhirah, the soldiers of the Khilafah launched an attack on Filipino Army positions in the village of Datu Salibo south of the city of Cotabato in the Philippines, leading to a Filipino soldier being killed. On the 16th of Jumada al-Akhirah, a group of Islamic State soldiers confronted a campaign launched by the Filipino Crusader army against their positions in the area of Datu Salibo south of the city of Cotabato. They detonated a group of explosive devices and clashed with the Crusaders for several hours, leading to two officers being killed, one of them a colonel and the other a captain. Another 10 Filipino soldiers were also killed, several others were wounded, a military vehicle was destroyed, and the Crusaders fled in retreat. Khurasan Wilayah On the 9th of Jumada al-Akhirah, 5 soldiers of the Khilafah – ‘Abdur-Rahman at-Tajiki, Ibrahim at-Tajiki, Sa’d al-Khurasani, Ja’far al-Hirati, and Muslim al-Kabuli  – set out towards the Kabul military hospital, which is designated for the treatment of apostate soldiers. One of the 5 soldiers of the Khilafah detonated his explosive vehicle at the hospital’s entrance, following which the remaining four entered the building and killed as many murtaddin as Allah decreed for them to kill. They then clashed with a force of murtaddin that attempted to storm the building. The battle continued for approximately 7 hours, during the course of which the inghimasiyyin detonated their explosive vests after exhausting their supply of ammo. The blessed operation resulted in approximately 400 murtaddin of the Afghan army and intelligence being killed. Bengal On the 18th of Jumada al-Akhirah, one of the soldiers of the Khilafah  carried out an istishhadi operation with an explosive vest, targeting a special forces base in the city of Dhaka. On the 25th of Jumada al-Akhirah, the istishhadi Abu Muhammad al-Bengali  succeeded in reaching one of the checkpoints for the international airport in the city of Dhaka. He entered into the midst of the murtaddin of the Bengali police and detonated his explosive vest, killing several of them and injuring a number of others. On the 26th of Jumada al-Akhirah, dozens of murtadd Bengali forces personnel were killed and wounded when an explosive device was detonated on a group of them near a checkpoint in the region of Sylhet. Halab Wilayah On the 20th of Jumada al-Akhirah, a number of Islamic State inghimasiyyin carried out an assault on Nusayri positions in the village of Jubb Abyad north of the city of Dar al-Fath. They engaged in fierce confrontations, during the course of which they succeeded in killing more than 30 murtaddin before returning safely back to their positions. Meanwhile, another group of mujahidin carried out an inghimasi attack on a group of Nusayri soldiers in the village of Tall al-Mu’izz northwest of Dar al-Fath. They succeeded in killing 15 murtaddin before returning safely back to their positions. Baghdad Wilayah On the 21st of Jumada al-Akhirah, a covert unit parked and detonated a car bomb on a gathering of Rafidi mushrikin in the neighborhood of ‘Amil towards the west of Baghdad, leading to 21 being killed and more than 40 others being wounded. Britain On the 23rd of Jumada al Akhirah, the soldier of the Khilafah, Khalid Masood , carried out an operation in the city of London, the heart of Crusader territory, in response to the Islamic State’s call to target the citizens of nations involved in the Crusader coalition. He ran over dozens of kuffar on the Westminister Bridge, killing three and injuring more than 50 others, following which he stormed the Parliamentary estate where he stabbed and killed a member of the British Crusader police guarding the premises, before attaining shahadah - we consider him so, and Allah is his judge. Qawqaz Wilayah On the 25th of Jumada al-Akhirah, 8 inghimasi soldiers of the Khilafah  attacked a Russian National Guard military base near the village of Naurskaya towards the northwest of the city of Grozny in Chechnya. They clashed with the soldiers in the base for several hours using light weapons, leading to at least 6 Russian soldiers being killed and three others being wounded. Six of the mujahidin attained shahadah during the course of the operation - we consider them so, and Allah is their judge - and the remaining two returned safely back to their locations.