Allah c ordered His slaves to guard themselves from everything that harms and afflicts them, and urged them towards the good things and forbade them from impurities and abomination, that which harms the psyche or physical health. He sent His Prophet with a complete, divine manhaj that encompasses both religious and worldly matters. The Sunnah is filled with varieties of divine graces which protect the Muslim in body and mind. Allah c says, “Those who follow the Messenger, the unlettered prophet, whom they find written in what they have of the Torah and the Injil (Gospel). He enjoins upon them what is good and forbids them what is evil and he makes lawful for them the pure things and prohibits for them the impure” (al-A’raf 157). At-Tabari r says, “Concerning His saying, ‘he makes lawful for them the pure things,’ this refers to what Jahiliyyah used to forbid, including ‘bahirah,’ ‘saibah,’ ‘wasilah,’ and ‘ham’ (four categories of livestock invented by the mushrikin based on certain traits). ‘And He prohibits for them the impure,’ and this includes the meat of swine, riba, and that which they used to make halal from the foods and drinks which Allah made haram.” Health Is a Blessing That Many People Are Heedless Of From the greatest of the blessings of Allah c on His creation is the blessing of good health, which none is aware of except those who lose it, and if one loses it he spends everything he owns to cure himself and restore his health, according to his ability. The Sunnah has pointed to the blessing of health in what was reported by al-Bukhari in his al-Adab al-Mufrad and the other books of as-Sunan where the Prophet says, “Whoever awakens secure with regards to his self, has his body in good health, and has his food for that day, it is as if he possesses the Dunya.” Likewise, Imam al-Bukhari r reported in his sahih that Ibn ‘Abbas k narrated that the Prophet g said, “There are two blessings that many people are heedless of: health and free time.” Ibnul-Battal r says, while explaining this magnificent hadith, “The meaning of the hadith is that a person doesn’t have free time until his needs are sufficed and his body is healthy. So whoever achieves that, then let him be vigilant not to become heedless in thanking Allah for what He has blessed him with, and from the means of giving Him thanks is to act upon His commands and abstain from what He has forbidden. So whoever is neglectful concerning that is heedless.” The Prohibition of Spoiling the Body What is strange with some people is that they spoil their health with that which Allah c has prohibited of the destructive and evil things, such as cigarettes and intoxicants that make absent the intellect and cripple it in varying degrees, and which severely harm the body. Such things, and others from among that which is prohibited are a slow death, and a means of destroying the body, and Allah c forbade killing oneself when He said, “And do not kill yourselves. Indeed, Allah is to you ever Merciful” (An-Nisa 29). And as such, the venerable Shari’ah came to safeguard the religion and the people, and for the sake of religion people are sacrificed cheaply by way of jihad in Allah’s cause until there is no more fitnah and all of the religion is for Allah. Apart from that, it is not permissible for the Muslim to inflict harm upon his body or do something that harms his health, whatever the reason may be. Al-Hakim reported in his Mustadrak, from Jabir, that a man from the people of at-Tufayl Ibn ‘Amr ad-Dawsi made hijrah with at-Tufayl and then became sick. He said, “He became discontent, so he came to a quiver, took an arrow, and cut the veins in his hands and died. At-Tufayl saw him in a dream and said, ‘What did Allah do with you?’ He said, ‘He forgave me due to my hijrah to the Prophet g.’ So he said, ‘What happened to your hands?’ He said, ‘It was said to me, ‘We will not repair what you have corrupted of yourself.’’ So at-Tufayl narrated the story to the Prophet g and he g said, ‘O Allah, and forgive him for his hands,’ and he raised his hands.” So that was a man who didn’t intend to kill himself, however his action led to his death, and Allah forgave him due to his hijrah, as that is what is apparent from the supplication of the Prophet g for him. Therefore, contemplate what was said to him: “I will not repair what you have corrupted of yourself,” for this body is not to be ruined except in pursuit of Allah’s pleasure and in maintaining obedience to Him, not due to the whims of the soul and its pleasures and impulses. Patience upon Sickness… A Sunnah of the Prophets and the Manhaj of the Righteous Between the blessing of health and the blessing of being cured, it is essential for every Muslim to put their trust in their Lord and to utilize the means for remedy. If he is cured then verily it is from Allah alone, and if he does not recover then he should think well of his Lord – in that He wills by it to raise his station and erase his sins by means of all of that which befalls him from the different types of physical and mental harm. Therefore, the Muslim seeks his reward through patience in the face of affliction, for that is the situation of the believer in both easy and hard times. Al-Bukhari and Muslim reported that the Prophet g said, “Nothing afflicts the Muslim of fatigue, illness, anxiety, grief, harm, or depression – even if it were the prick of a thorn – except that Allah expiates by that his sins.” Due to this, some of the Salaf would rejoice if they fell sick, for verily those tested most severely are the prophets, then those resembling them, and then those resembling them. Imam al-Bukhari reported in his sahih from al-Harith Ibn Suwayd, from ‘Abdullah that he said, “I entered upon the Messenger of Allah g while he was suffering from fever, so I wiped him and said, ‘Verily you are suffering a severe fever.’ So he said, ‘Verily, I suffer the likes of what two of you suffer.’ I said, ‘Is that because for you are two rewards?’ He said, ‘Indeed it is so. Likewise, there is no Muslim who is afflicted with harm – a pricking of a thorn or more than that – except that Allah expiates by it his sins just as a tree drops its leaves.’” Likewise, the Prophet of Allah Ayyub n was struck with an ailment that afflicted him for a prolonged time, and Allah c praised him for his patience. He said, “Indeed, We found him patient, an excellent slave. Indeed, he was one repeatedly turning back (to Allah)” (Sad 44). He then supplicated to Allah his Lord, but not in a direct manner. Rather, it was with excellent manners and a beautiful du’a. He said, “Indeed, adversity has touched me, and you are the Most Merciful of those who are merciful” (Al-Anbiya 83). This du’a of his did not come except after many years of suffering from the pain of his ailment and the people’s abandonment of him, while anticipating his reward and being patient in the face of its severity and harm. So how long did the ailment afflict him before he sought the greatest of means – supplicating to Allah b. Likewise is the manhaj of the followers of the prophets. Abu Dawud reported in Kitab az-Zuhd from Abud-Darda h that he said, “I love poverty out of humility to my Lord, and I love death out of longing for my Lord, and I love sickness as it expiates my sins.” Who Will Buy Jannah with Patience? From the amazing examples of the first generation concerning their patience upon tribulations in pursuit of Jannah is what Imam al-Bukhari reported from ‘Ata Ibn Abi Rabah, who said, “Ibn ‘Abbas said to me, ‘Shall I not show you a woman from the people of Jannah?’ I said, ‘Of course.’ He said, ‘That black woman who came to the Prophet g and said, ‘I suffer seizures and become exposed, so invoke Allah for me.’ He said, ‘If you wish, you can be patient and for you will be Jannah, and if you wish I can invoke Allah that He cures you.’ So she said, ‘I will be patient.’ Then she said, ‘I become exposed, so invoke Allah that I don’t become exposed.’ So he supplicated for her.” This believing woman endured the pain of her seizures in this Dunya in order to obtain Jannah and its blisses, so reflect on that. Whoever finds this unusual, then sufficient is the hadith which was narrated by Imam at Tirmidhi from Jabir that he said, “The Messenger of Allah g said, ‘The people of good health will wish, on Yawm al-Qiyamah, that their skins were cut up with scissors due to what they see of the reward given to the people who were tested.’” So let he whom Allah has blessed with abundant health praise Allah c for that blessing and thank Him for it, that he may expend that which he was given in Allah’s obedience, as Allah c ordered, “But seek, through that which Allah has given you, the home of the Hereafter, and do not forget your share of the world” (Al-Qasas 77). And let him take advantage of his days of health and strength to increase the amount of good deeds in his account before there suddenly overcomes him sickness, old age, or weakness, as the Prophet of Allah g advised, “Take advantage of five before five: Your youth before your old age, your health before your becoming sick, your richness before your poverty, your free time before you become preoccupied, and your life before your death” (Reported by al-Hakim in al-Mustadrak). So let whoever Allah tests with sickness praise Allah c for what has afflicted him, for verily some afflictions are less severe than others. And let him be patient in the face of what he has been afflicted with, while anticipating his reward from Allah c, especially if it is an injury that was incurred for the cause of Allah, for verily patience upon what has befallen oneself and thanking Allah for what He has blessed him with of injury for His cause is from the greatest of matters. May Allah cure every Muslim suffering from sickness, and make that which has afflicted them a means by which their sins are cleansed, and a means by which their status is raised. Indeed, He is the patron for that and fully capable of it, and praise be to Allah, the Lord of the creation.