Allah c said, “Did you not see those who claim they believe in what was revealed to you and what was revealed before you, (yet) they want to seek judgment from taghut, though they were ordered to disbelieve therein, and Shaytan wants to lead them far astray. And when it was said to them, ‘Come to what Allah revealed and to the Messenger,’ you saw the munafiqin holding back from you in avoidance. So how then, when an affliction struck them due to what their own hands brought forth, they then came to you, swearing by Allah, ‘We did not want anything but well-doing and successful outcome’” (An-Nisa 60-62). Whoever recognizes that there is no god except Allah must also comply with His hukm (rule and judgment) and submit to His command, which was brought forth from Him through His Messenger, Muhammad g. So whoever testifies that there is no god except Allah, and then defers to the judgment of other than the Messenger g in matters of dispute, then he has lied in his testimony. Tawhid is based upon the two testimonies, and one is not said without the other due to their inseparability. And just as the testimony that, “There is no god except Allah,” comprises the right of Allah over His slaves, the testimony that “Muhammad is the Messenger of Allah” comprises the truth that he is a worshiper, not something to be worshiped, and a truthful messenger who does not lie. Instead, he is to be obeyed and followed because he is conveying the message from Allah c. So he m has that status of messenger and of conveyance from Allah, as well as that of judging between people when they have disagreements – for he does not judge except by the rule of Allah, with his concern for life, family, wealth, and land. And he has no share of divinity. Rather, he is the slave of Allah and His Messenger, just as Allah c said, “That when the slave of Allah stood, supplicating Him, they were almost as multitudes against him” (Al-Jinn 19). And he g said, “I am only His slave, so say, ‘the slave of Allah and His Messenger’” (Reported by al-Bukhari). Among the consequences of that include properly adhering to him, seeking his judgment in matters of dispute, and rejecting the judgment of all others. (For the hypocrites are those who claim to believe in him while they seek the judgment of others). In this way, the slave shall realize the perfection of tawhid and adherence, ultimately realizing his own complete satisfaction. This is the meaning of the two testimonies. Once this is clear, then the meaning of the ayah is that Allah f) has disapproved of whoever claims to believe in what Allah revealed to His Messenger and to the prophets before him while at the same time wanting to seek judgment for resolving disputes from other than the Book of Allah and the Sunnah of His Messenger. Ibnul-Qayyim said, “Taghut is whoever transgresses his limit, as it comes from tughyan, which means surpassing the boundary.” So anyone from whom two opponents seek judgment, while he judges by other than the Book of Allah and the Sunnah of His Messenger g, then he is a taghut, as he has transgressed his limit. Thereby, everyone who worships something besides Allah is actually worshiping taghut, surpassing the boundary with what he worships and giving worship to what does not deserve it. Such is the case of whoever makes other than Allah and His Messenger g the judge and seeks judgment therefrom in matters of dispute. Included in His saying, “those who claim that they believe,” is the rejection of what they have alleged of having iman. As such, He did not say, “those who believe,” because if they were truly people of iman, they would not have wanted to seek judgment from other than Allah c and His Messenger g, and He would not have said of them, “those who claim.” This is something mostly only said of one who falsely alleges something, as his action negates and opposes what that claim entails. Ibn Kathir said, “This ayah dispraises whoever deviates from the Book and the Sunnah and seeks judgment from anything else, which is invalid – and that is what is meant here by ‘taghut.’” His c saying, “Though they were ordered to disbelieve therein,” i.e. in taghut, proves that seeking judgment from taghut is contradictory to iman, even opposite to it. So iman is not sound except after disbelieving in taghut and abandoning seeking judgment therefrom. Whoever does not disbelieve in taghut has not believed in Allah. His c saying, “And Shaytan wants to lead them far astray,” means that wanting to seek judgment from other than the Book of Allah and the Sunnah of His Messenger g is obedience to Shaytan. And he only calls his party to become residents of the Inferno. In this ayah, there is evidence that abandoning seeking judgment from taghut, which is anything other than the Book and the Sunnah, is an obligation, and that the one who seeks judgment therefrom is not a believer – and he is not a Muslim. His c saying, “And when it was said to them, ‘Come to what Allah revealed and to the Messenger,’ you saw the munafiqin holding back from you in avoidance,” means that when they were called to seeking judgment from what Allah revealed and from the Messenger, they turned away from you with arrogance, just as Allah c said, “When they were called to Allah and His Messenger to rule between them, there was a group of them who turned away” (An-Nur 48). Ibnul-Qayyim said, “This is evidence that whoever is called to ruling by the Book and the Sunnah, but he does not accept and refuses, then he is a munafiq.” The word “holding back” here is intransitive, not transitive, and it has the same meaning of “turning away,” not that it means they are preventing others. This is why the word “in avoidance” was mentioned, which has an intransitive meaning, unlike “in repulsion” or otherwise, which is transitive. So if the one who turns away from this has been ruled by Allah c to be a munafiq, then what about someone who goes beyond turning away and prevents other people from ruling by the Book and the Sunnah and seeking judgment therefrom, whether through his words, deeds, or writings – all the while claiming to only want well-doing and a successful outcome?! This is the case of many of those who claim to have knowledge and iman in these times. When it is said to them to come seek judgment from what Allah revealed and from the Messenger, “you see them holding back while they are arrogant” (al-Munafiqun 5) and they make excuses of being ignorant or mistaken. “Rather, Allah cursed them for their kufr. So little do they believe” (Al-Baqarah 88). Regarding His c saying, “So how then, when an affliction struck them due to what their own hands brought forth,” Ibn Kathir said, “This means: So how are they, when fate has brought them to you amid afflictions their sins have caused for them, and they became in need of you thereby.” Ibnul-Qayyim said, “It is said that the affliction is that they were exposed, as the Quran was revealed regarding them, and there is no doubt that this would be the greatest affliction and harm to them. So the afflictions which strike them through their own actions of body, heart, and religion are caused by their opposition to the Messenger m, and the greatest of them are the afflictions of the heart and religion. So they consider virtue to be vice, guidance to be deviance, truth to be falsehood, and righteousness to be corruption. Such is the affliction of the heart, and such is the result of opposing the Messenger g and opposing making him judge. Sufyan ath-Thawri said about His c saying, ‘Then let those who oppose his command beware that a fitnah will strike them’ (An-Nur 63), ‘that their hearts will be sealed.’” As for His c saying, “They then came to you, swearing by Allah, ‘We did not want anything but well-doing and successful outcome,’” Ibn Kathir said, “It means that they make excuses and swear that, ‘We only wanted, by our going to someone else, some favoring and flattery.’” Others said that “well-doing” means to not do something bad, and that “successful outcome” means between two opposing parties, and as if to say, “We did not want to oppose you or be discontent with your decision.” [Summarized from the book “Taysir al-‘Aziz al Hamid].