At a time when Muslims are being killed in the east and in the west – men, women, children, and the elderly altogether – and when the mushrikin and murtaddin are deploying all manner of destructive weaponry against them, raining devastation on their villages and towns, the evil scholars, the preachers of misguidance, and the tawaghit of the democratic parties are busy weeping over every mushrik struck by the hands of the mujahidin and disavowing themselves of every attack carried out against their Crusader allies, claiming that Islam does not permit such deeds and accusing those who carry them out of tarnishing the religion’s image. Their sinful tongues and filthy pens even go so far as to give those harbi (belligerent) kuffar protection with respect to their blood and their wealth, and to defame the noble muwahhidin, who carried out Allah’s judgment on the mushrikin and, through their blessed deeds – not just their words – revived shar’i rulings which the tawaghit and their allies endeavored to either wipe out or replace. From among these blessed deeds were the successive attacks which the soldiers of the Islamic State in Misr and Sinai carried out against the Christians in those lands, targeting them with killings and assassinations, and afflicting their churches with burning and explosions. Thus, they brought upon them tremendous detriment and deepened their wounds. The last of the blessed attacks against them were the simultaneous explosions at two of their largest churches, one in northern Misr and the other in southern Misr, in the cities of Alexandria and Tanta on their holiday on the 12th of the month of Rajab in the year 1438. More than 200 of the Christian mushrikin and their supporters from among the murtadd soldiers of the taghut were killed and wounded, and to Allah belongs all praise. In this brief article we will attempt to shed light on the condition of the Christians in Misr, as well as the ruling of Islam concerning their blood, their wealth, their honor, and their churches, so that those who live may live upon evidence and those who perish may perish upon evidence. And it is Allah who guides to the straight path. So Kill the Mushrikin Wherever You Find Them The default with regards to the blood of mushrikin is that it is permissible to shed, due to the statement of Allah c, “And when the sacred months have passed, then kill the musrhikin wherever you find them and capture them and besiege them and sit in wait for them at every place of ambush. But if they should repent, establish prayer, and give zakah, let them [go] on their way. Indeed, Allah is Forgiving and Merciful” (At-Tawbah 5). Committing shirk with Allah is a sin that makes one permissible to be killed, and believing in Him gives one protection, as the Prophet g said, “I was commanded to fight the people until they say ‘La ilaha illallah,’ so whoever says ‘La ilaha illallah’ has protected from me his wealth and his life except by its right (i.e. by the right of ‘La ilaha illallah’) and his reckoning is upon Allah” (Reported by al-Bukhari and Muslim). The mushrikin cannot render their blood inviolable except through a dhimmah contract, or a covenant of security or safety. The inviolability of their blood in such cases would be an exceptional ruling, and whenever that ruling is terminated – either due to their violation of the covenant, or due to the expiry of the duration of the covenant of security or safety – their blood would go back to the default ruling of it being permissible to shed, and there is no disagreement among the Muslims in that regard. No Protection for Their Blood Except through Faith or a Covenant of Security The Christians in Misr and in other lands of the Muslims are from among those for whom Allah c permitted that they protect their blood by entering under the dhimmah (liability) of the Muslims and paying the jizyah in humiliation, due to the statement of Allah c, “Fight those who do not believe in Allah or in the Last Day and who do not consider unlawful what Allah and His Messenger have made unlawful and who do not adopt the religion of truth from those who were given the Scripture – [fight] until they give the jizyah willingly while they are humbled” (At-Tawbah 29). If they do that, then their blood, wealth, and honor become protected except by the right of Islam, and there are many, well-known texts which emphasize the inviolability of the blood of the mu’ahadin (those with covenants of security), the dhimmiyyin (those with contracts of dhimmah), and those with covenants of safety. From among them is the statement of the Prophet g, “Whoever kills a person who’s been given a covenant will not smell the fragrance of Jannah, and indeed its fragrance can be found from a distance of 40 years of marching” (Reported by al-Bukhari), and in the narration of Ahmad and others, “Whoever kills someone from Ahl adh-Dhimmah…” Likewise, there is the statement of ‘Umar Ibn al-Khattab , “And I counsel you concerning the dhimmah of Allah and the dhimmah of His Messenger g – that the covenant with them is upheld, that they are defended against the enemy (i.e. the belligerent kuffar), and that they are not burdened with more than they can bear” (Reported al-Bukhari). And this is how they were dealt with by the allies of Allah in the most virtuous generations. They gave security to those who entered under their dhimmah as long as they upheld the conditions placed on them by the Muslims and fulfilled their agreements with them. And anyone among them who breached any of the terms would have no contract and no dhimmah. This was the Sunnah of Allah’s Messenger g with respect to the Jews, having placed on them as conditions “that they do not conceal or hide anything, and that if they were to do so they would have no dhimmah and no immunity” (Reported by Ibn Hibban). Then, when it became apparent to him that they had concealed from him a portion of wealth – it was wealth which belonged to Huyayy Ibn Akhtab – Allah’s Messenger g killed the two sons of Abu Haqiq, one of whom was the wife of Safiyyah Bint Huyayy Ibn Akhtab, took their women and children as slaves, and distributed their wealth on account of their breach of agreement” (Reported by Ibn Hibban in his Sahih, and by al-Bayhaqi in his Sunan). If a Muslim grants safety to a mushrik, the Muslims are obligated to withhold their hands from that mushrik, as per the hadith reported by al-Bukhari and Muslim in which ‘Ali  narrates, saying, “Allah’s Messenger g said, ‘The covenant of the Muslims is one and the least among them must endeavor to uphold it, so whoever betrays a Muslim, then upon him is the curse of Allah, the angels, and all of mankind, and nothing will be accepted from them.’” Likewise is what was narrated by ‘Ali , who said that Allah’s Messenger g said, “The believers are equal with regards to their blood, they are one hand against all others, and the least among them endeavors to uphold their covenant. A believer is not to be killed [in retribution] for [the killing of] a kafir, nor one who has a covenant that is still valid” (Reported by Ahmad, Abu Dawud, and an-Nasai). The Christians of Misr Are Belligerent The Christians residing in Misr today are belligerent kuffar. The belligerent (i.e. harbi) kafir is the one who is neither a dhimmi nor one who’s been granted security, regardless of whether he is a combatant or non-combatant, or whether he defames Islam or does not, or whether he transgresses against the blood, wealth, and honor of the Muslims or does not. So how then with respect to the Christians of Misr given that they commit all of these transgressions? The Christians of Misr possess weapons in preparation to fight the Muslims. Rather, they are engaged in fighting the Muslims through their continuous transgressions against any Christian who embraces Islam, kidnapping them, killing them, and putting them through trial and tribulation in order to make them return to shirk. And likewise through their membership in the taghut’s army, security and intelligence agencies, and police force, which wage war against the Muslims and guard the shari’ah of the taghut, and they are among the most sincere supporters of the taghut Sisi in Misr, and among his closest allies and most loyal partners in his war against Islam and the Muslims. Furthermore, they, their priests, and their monks are among the people most active in defaming the religion of Islam, the Noble Quran, and the Messenger g. As such, they are from the leaders of kufr whom Allah c has commanded us to fight. Allah c said, “And if they break their oaths after their covenant and defame your religion, then fight the leaders of kufr, for indeed, they have no covenant; [fight them that] they might cease” (At-Tawbah 12). They Are of Them… With the permissibility of shedding the blood of belligerent Christians in general, including the Christians of Misr, it is the fighters among them who are to be targeted, and they are those who are capable of carrying a weapon, even if they don’t actually do so, and likewise those of them who support the fighters with their opinion and counsel. As for those who don’t normally carry weapons, such as women, children, the elderly, and the infirm, the default with them is that they are to be taken as slaves, not that they are to be killed. This is despite their blood not being protected since they continue to remain upon their shirk, and in that regard, children take the ruling of their fathers. Furthermore, anyone among them who carries a weapon – regardless of whether they are a child or a woman – is to be killed, and whoever participates in the fighting by offering his opinion and counsel is likewise to be killed, even if he is from among the elderly and infirm, due to the Prophet g agreeing with the Sahabah’s killing of Durayd Ibn as-Summah after the Battle of Hunayn. He was an old man who was incapable of fighting, but he was a man whose opinion and counsel was sought among his people, and the story is in the Sahihayn, as well as in other books of the Sunnah. With regards to those of the non-combatant women and children from among the belligerent Christians who are killed unintentionally, their blood is waste – just like the blood of the combatants – because their blood is not protected since they neither embraced Islam nor do they have a covenant, with such also being used by al-Bukhari r as a chapter title: “Chapter: The Family inside a Home Is Raided at Night and the Parents and Children Are Maimed.” In it he reports the hadith of Sa’b Ibn Jaththamah, who said, “Allah’s Messenger g was asked about the children of the mushrikin who are raided at night and [as a result], they (i.e. the Muslims) strike their women and children [in the raid]. So he said, ‘They are of them’” (Reported by al-Bukhari and Muslim). Therefore, the killing of their women and children occurs as a consequence and is not deliberate, such as when they are killed in a raid by the mujahidin where it is difficult to distinguish between the fighters and the non-fighters, or when they are killed by a weapon that has a wide range of damage, as is the case when conducting artillery bombardment, or detonating explosive belts or car bombs in places where the fighters are present and they are mixed together with them. And the evidence for the permissibility of targeting them with such weapons is the action of the Prophet g in setting up a catapult against the people of Taif even though there were those inside their fortresses who were not to be intentionally killed and who were mixed with the fighters in a manner in which it wasn’t possible to distinguish between them. And likewise is the action of ‘Amr Ibn al-‘As  in setting up catapults against the people of Alexandria. Imam al-Baghawi r stated in the chapter on night raids, “And in this is evidence for the permissibility of night raids and the killing of mushrikin in negligence and inattentiveness – even if it leads to their women and children being struck – and that the prohibition of killing their women and children applies to situations when they can be distinguished and separated. Likewise, if they are inside a fortress, it is permissible to set up catapults against them, shoot fire at them, and drown them, for the Prophet g set up a catapult against the people of Taif, launched a fierce invasion of Banil-Mustaliq, and ordered night raids and attacks with fire” (Sharh as-Sunnah). So Fight the Leaders of Kufr Likewise is the case with the monks, concerning whom there is a command to withhold from attacking – as a default rule – based on the statement of Abu Bakr  to Yazid Ibn Abi Sufyan, “Indeed, you will find a people who claim that they have secluded themselves for Allah, so leave them and their claim to have secluded themselves for Him” (Reported by Malik). The ruling on killing them differs based on their relationship with their people. If any of them departs from his people and secludes himself in his monastery, neither residing with them nor benefiting them with any opinion, he is to be left alone as long as he remains in that condition. As for the one who mixes with them, or calls to their false religion, or advises and counsels them, his ruling does not differ from the ruling on the rest of their fighters. Rather, he is even more severe in kufr and in waging war than they are. Based on this, the fuqaha differentiated between the monks who are secluded in the monasteries and the deserts, and the priests who serve as caretakers over their churches, for the latter are to be killed and enslaved, in contrast with the former, even though the blood of these monks has no sanctity due to them remaining upon their shirk and kufr of Allah the Almighty. For this reason, one should seek closeness to Allah by targeting the priests, monks, and others (those who serve as caretakers over the churches of the belligerent Christians, including the Christians of Misr), harming them and killing them, as they are in fact the leaders of kufr and they are the tawaghit who are worshiped besides Allah and of whom Allah c said, “They took their scribes and their monks as lords besides Allah” (At-Tawbah 31). And in killing them there is the greatest of rewards, by Allah’s permission. Imam Ibn Taymiyyah r said, “The monks concerning whom the scholars differed as to the permissibility of killing them and taking jizyah from them are mentioned in the hadith from Abu Bakr as-Siddiq , who stated in his orders to Yazid Ibn Abi Sufyan when sending him to lead the conquest of Sham, ‘You will find a people who claim that they have secluded themselves in their monasteries, so leave them and their claim to have secluded themselves for Allah, and you will find a people who have sheared the hair from the middle of their heads, so strike the place where they’ve sheared their hair with the sword, because Allah says, ‘Then fight the leaders of kufr, for indeed, they have no covenant; [fight them that] they might cease’’ (At-Tawbah 12). As for the monk who aids the people of his religion with his hand and his tongue, such as one who has an opinion which they seek when it comes to fighting or incites them, he is to be killed by the agreement of the scholars if he is subdued, and he has jizyah taken from him even if he secluded in solitude in his place of worship. “[…] Does any scholar say that the leaders of kufr who prevent their masses from the path of Allah, devour the wealth of the people through falsehood, and are pleased with being taken as lords besides Allah are not to be killed and are not to have jizyah taken from them even though it is taken from the masses who are a less harmful than them towards the religion and have less wealth than they do? No one who knows what he is saying would say this. The misconception only came about due to the term ‘monk’ being general and encompassing” (Majmu’ al-Fatawa). Then, When You Have Inflicted a Massacre, Secure Their Bonds… If we know that the blood of the Christians is permissible to shed, we know that taking them as slaves is also permissible, and likewise taking them prisoner and ransoming them for our prisoners or for wealth after having inflicted a massacre on them, due to the statement of Allah c, “So when you meet those who disbelieve [in battle], strike [their] necks until, when you have inflicted slaughter upon them, then secure their bonds, and either [confer] favor afterwards or ransom [them] until the war lays down its burdens” (Muhammad 4). So the Muslims in Misr and elsewhere from among the lands of kufr can imprison the Christians, after having inflicted a massacre on them, their old and their young, and their men and their women, and then ransom them for their brothers and sisters imprisoned by the tawaghit, for the souls of the Christians are precious to them, and the Crusader nations behind them would seek them and defend them. Likewise, they can ransom them for wealth, though ransoming them for prisoners is better. They can also show them grace by setting them free if they see in that a benefit for the Muslims. Demolishing “Churches of Force” in the Possession of the Christians of Misr There is no sanctity for the Christians’ churches in and of themselves, as they are places in which shirk and kufr are practiced. Concerning the churches of the Christians, Imam Ibn Taymiyyah r said, “They are not the houses of Allah – the houses of Allah are only the masajid. Rather, they are houses in which the kufr of Allah is practiced, even if He is mentioned therein [with reverence]. Houses take the ruling of their people, and the people of these houses are kuffar, so they are houses for the kuffar’s worship” (Majmu’ al-Fatawa). Likewise, he said, “If a person believes that churches are the houses of Allah, or that He is worshiped therein, or that what the Jews and Christians do is worship of Allah and obedience towards Him and towards His Messenger, or that He loves that or is pleased with it, then he is a kafir, because this entails believing that their religion is correct, and that is kufr. And if he helps them in opening it – meaning: the churches – and in establishing their religion, and believes this to be a means of attaining closeness to Allah or an act of obedience, then he is a kafir, because this entails believing that their religion is correct” (Majmu’ al-Fatawa). Therefore, in any land which the Muslims have taken from them by force, then the Muslims are allowed to demolish or take the churches found there, even if they were to have agreed to these churches being present in some previous era of time. As for those lands where the Christians make a treaty with the Muslims for them to enter the land with the condition that the churches remain, then such churches are tied to the covenant and to the Christians’ fulfillment of it. So when they breach their covenant, the sanctity of the churches ceases to exist and it is permissible for the Muslims to demolish them and remove them, as the sanctity is for the covenant, not for the churches. When the covenant ceases to exist there is no sanctity for the churches. Imam Ibn Taymiyyah r said, “The Muslims have taken many churches from them – in lands taken by force – after the presence of the churches were previously agreed to, during the khilafah of ‘Umar Ibn ‘Abdil-‘Aziz and others from among the khulafa, and there was no one from among the Muslims who condemned that. Therefore, it was known that demolishing churches in lands taken by force is permissible if it does not lead to harm befalling the Muslims. Those who refrained did so due to the small number of Muslims and other such reasons, just as the Prophet g refrained from expelling the Jews, until eventually they were expelled by ‘Umar Ibnul-Khattab” (Majmu’ al-Fatawa). When the churches are no longer prohibited from being demolished, ruined, or taken as ghanimah – due to the absence of a covenant with them or due to their breach of the covenant – they become like the rest of their wealth, which the Muslims are allowed to make use of in that which is permitted for them. Imam Ibn Taymiyyah r said, “When their covenant is violated, it becomes permissible to take the churches of [the lands taken through a] treaty, let alone the churches of [the lands taken by] force, just as the Prophet g took what belonged to [the Jews of the tribes of] Quraydhah, and Nadir when they violated their covenant, for the one who violates a covenant is worse than a kafir asli (i.e. one who was originally a kafr, as opposed to a murtadd)” (Masalah fil-Kanais). The Prophet g and his companions ruined and destroyed the wealth and homes of the mushrikin, as occurred in the Battle of Khaybar. Allah c said, “They destroyed their houses by their [own] hands and the hands of the believers. So take warning, O people of vision” (Al-Hashr 2). He c also said, “Whatever you have cut down of [their] palm trees or left standing on their trunks – it was by permission of Allah and so He would disgrace the defiantly disobedient” (Al-Hashr 5). And the Prophet g did likewise in Taif. Furthermore, ash-Shafi’i r said, “And it is not forbidden for them (meaning the Muslims) to burn or ruin it (meaning their wealth) until they become either Muslims or Ahl adh-Dhimmah, or until some of their wealth which the Muslims are able to bear and carry away falls into their hands – it is not permissible to burn that because it has become the property of the Muslims, and they can burn anything aside from it which cannot be carried” (al-Umm). Permitting their public wealth (such as most of the churches) is even more appropriate, because it isn’t wealth that belongs to just one individual among them. Therefore, targeting these churches with ruin and destruction is a matter that is permitted in the Shari’ah, and it is allowed to use this as a means of attaining closeness to Allah c. Fight Them and Allah Will Punish Them through Your Hands… Through all of the aforementioned, we can see that the Christians – including the Christians of Misr – do not have any sanctity with regards to their blood and their wealth because they are belligerent and do not have dhimmah. If anyone from among them is killed, his blood is waste, and likewise their wealth is permissible for the Muslims to take. And from among the greatest means of causing them detriment is to harm and kill their fighters – especially their tawaghit as well as the leaders of kufr among them, even if doing so leads to harming those who are not to be targeted for killing – and to target their churches and monasteries with destruction and ruin, until they believe in Allah the Almighty or give the jizyah willingly while humbled. Allah knows best, and all praise belongs to Allah, the Lord of the creation.