The clans of Quraysh were united on sanctioning the believers and leaving them stranded with Bani Hashim in the mountain pass of Abu Talib. This lasted for three years, during which they would not sell to them or buy from them, such that they could not find food to eat, other than what they gathered off the ground. The believers nearly perished, if it were not for Allah’s mercy reaching them. The People of the Trench were thrown into the fire for not accepting compromise in their religion. They preferred death in the cause of Allah. The taghut then had his ditches dug and fires lit, commanding his guards and soldiers to cast the believers into the fire. But then came the astonishing surprise: instead of weakening and fleeing, none of the narrations have recorded that any of them cowered and fled. Rather, we find courage and bravery as they stepped over one another to reach the fire – as if the boy spread bravery and steadfastness throughout them. These were those who found pleasure in joining him, as if they were joyful in offering their souls as ransoms for their religion. So indeed they were successful. Allah  even called it “a great success” in His saying, “Indeed, those who have believed and did righteous deeds will have gardens beneath which rivers flow. That is the great success” (Al-Buruj 11). Anas Ibn Malik  said, “My uncle, Anas Ibn an-Nadr, missed the battle of Badr, so he said, ‘O Messenger of Allah, I missed the first battle in which you fought the mushrikin, but if I am to fight against the mushrikin, Allah will surely see what I can do.’ So when it was the Day of Uhud and the Muslims faltered, he said, ‘O Allah! I excuse myself to You from what these [the Muslims] have done and I am innocent before You of what these [the mushrikin] have done.’ He then went forth and met Sa’d Ibn Mu’adh and said, ‘O Sa’d Ibn Mu’adh! Jannah, by the Lord of an-Nadr! Jannah, by the Lord of an-Nadr! I can smell it near Uhud!’ Sa’d later said, ‘O Messenger of Allah, I could not do what he did.’” Anas said, “We found on his body some eighty-odd marks from swords, spears, and arrows. He was killed and the mushrikin had mutilated his body. No one even recognized him, except his sister, who recognized his fingertips. We thought that this ayah was revealed due to him and those like him: ‘Among the believers are men true to what they promised Allah. Among them is he who has fulfilled his vow, and among them is he who awaits. And they did not alter [their vows] by any alteration’ (Al-Ahzab 23).” We find this meaning of victory in the hadith narrated by Khabbab, when he came to Allah’s Messenger g and said to him, “Will you not seek victory for us? Will you not pray for us?” He said, “Before you, a man would be put into a hole dug into the ground, then a saw would be brought to him, put onto his head, and then he would be cut into two parts – and that would not avert him from his religion. His skin would be flayed with metal combs, tearing his flesh from his bone and nerves – and that would not avert him from his religion” (Reported by al-Bukhari). Included in the kinds of hidden victory that only the believers witness is that the enemy of truth, however arrogant and excessive he may be, will taste all sorts of mental anguish before he harms his opponent. He will often find no rest or joy after doing his evil deed. For this reason, al-Hajjaj Ibn Yusuf, when he killed Sa’id Ibn Jubayr, tasted all forms of psychological torment, such that he found no comfort in sleep and he would rise in panic from his bed, saying, “What have I done to Sa’id?!” He faced this grief until he died. This is what we are certain of in our war with the boastful cross-bearing American taghut. Even though they have their force and their tyrannical use of weapons and equipment, they face psychological degradation and a collapse of morale, the likes of which would crush mountains. The Quran explained this reality, as Allah c said, “But when they are alone, they bite their fingertips in you in rage. Say, ‘Die in your rage. Indeed, Allah is Knowing of that within the breasts.’ If good touches you, it distresses them; but if harm strikes you, they rejoice at it. And if you are patient and fear Allah, their plot will not harm you at all. Indeed, Allah is encompassing of what they do” (Al ‘Imran 119-120), and He c said, “Allah repelled those who disbelieved, in their rage, not having obtained any good. And sufficient was Allah for the believers in battle, and ever is Allah Powerful and Exalted in Might” (Al-Ahzab 25). And among those things that are hidden from people lacking insight is the complete true life promised by Allah to His allies and pure worshipers. He c said, “Never think of those who have been killed in the cause of Allah as dead. Rather, they are alive with their Lord, receiving provision” (Al ‘Imran 169). Whoever died not by sword died otherwise, The methods are many, but death is just one. The preceding makes the comprehensive understanding of victory clear to us: that we are unable to define the kind of victory we really want. And from the causes of steadfastness and defiance, which we witnessed on the ground at Fallujah, is that the Prophet g told us that of the signs of victory for Islam is that no force on earth will be able to defeat all of the believers, as it was feared in the time of Nuh or in the earliest days of the Message (of Muhammad). This is because Allah’s Messenger g explained that jihad will continue as a constant factor on the earth, as he said, “There will not cease to be a group from my ummah, standing by the command of Allah – not harmed by those who betray them or oppose them – until Allah’s command comes and they are as such” (Reported by al Bukhari and Muslim from Mu’awiyah). Victory and the fate of this religion is in the hand of Allah c. He has vouched for it and has promised it. If He wills, He will support it and make it dominant, and if He wills, He will delay that from happening. For He is the Wise, and He is Aware of His affairs. So if He causes a delay, then it is due to a decreed wisdom for the welfare of iman and its people – and no one is more ardent in their support for the truth and its people than Allah. “And that day the believers will rejoice in the victory of Allah. He gives victory to whom He wills, and He is the Exalted in Might, the Merciful. It the promise of Allah. Allah does not fail in His promise, but most of the people do not know” (Ar-Rum 4-6). Do not think glory is a date you can eat, You’ ll never taste glory ‘til you lick patience. For indeed Allah c – magnificent is His ability, mighty is His grandeur – grants victory to the believers sometimes, and sometimes He tests them, restricting them of this blessing so that they taste tribulations. The wisdoms of this are determined and known by Him. Allah might bless the test, though it be big, And Allah tests some people with blessings. Ibnul-Qayyim r considered some of these wisdoms in Zad al-Ma’ad, saying: Of them is that this is a trait of the messengers, just as Hiraql told Abu Sufyan, asking him, “Have you fought him?” He said, “Yes,” He said, “How was the war between you and him?” He said, “In turns – he defeats us sometimes and we defeat him sometimes.” He said, “And likewise the messengers are afflicted, then the final outcome shall be theirs” (Reported by al-Bukhari and Muslim). Of them is that the truthful believer is distinguished from the deceitful munafiq, for indeed after Allah gave victory to the Muslims over their enemies on the Day of Badr and their reputation increased, and there were those who entered into Islam only outwardly but not inwardly, Allah’s  wisdom came to bring about a test for His slaves, through which the Muslim would be distinguished from the munafiq. The munafiqin showed themselves in this battle, speaking that which their hearts previously concealed, displaying their erroneous way, as their mere gesturing turned into explicit speech – and the people were clearly divided: believer, disbeliever, and munafiq. And the believers recognized that they had an enemy amongst them, an enemy that would not leave them; so they prepared for them and took their guard against them. Of them is that if Allah c always supported the believers and gave them victory over their enemy in every battle, giving them consolidation over their enemies in every case, their souls would transgress and become arrogant and proud. They would be with support and victory in the same situation as they are with any provision. But His slaves are not rectified except through good times and bad times, hardship and ease, and poverty and wealth, and Allah manages the affairs of His slaves according to His wisdom – and He is Aware of them and Watchful over them. Of them is that the servitude of His allies and His party is brought out during good times and bad times, during that which they love and that which they hate, in the state of their victory and that of their enemies. So if they remain steadfast upon worshipful obedience in what they love and hate, they are truly His slaves, unlike one who worships Allah only during good, blessed, and healthy times. Of them is that when He tests them with defeat and being conquered, they are humiliated, divided, and subdued, until they seek His might and support. For the removal of support only brings about the rule of humiliation and division. Allah c said, “Allah had given you victory at Badr while you were few in number” (Al ‘Imran 123), and He said, “On the day of Hunayn, when your great number pleased you, but it did not avail you at all” (At-Tawbah 25). For if He c wants to bolster, support, and mend His slave, He breaks him first. And His mending him, bolstering him, and support for him, is all in accordance with how much he faced of humiliation and division. Of them is that Allah c prepared for His believing slaves homes in the abode of His generosity – their deeds will not reach them, but they will only come to them through trial and tribulation. So He will send to them the means by which they will reach these homes by ordaining tests and trials for them. Likewise, He grants them success in accomplishing righteous deeds, which are also amongst these means. Of them is that souls gain lasting health, support, and sufficiency through transgression and haste. Such is a sickness that impairs them from seriously moving towards Allah and the Akhirah. If their Lord, their Owner, and their Giver of Mercy wanted them to receive His honor, He decreed for them to be tested and tried as a treatment to that impairing sickness. As such, these trials and tribulations are like the physician who gives his patient some unpleasant medicine in order to remove his ailments – and if he left him alone, these ailments would overcome him and lead to his demise. Of them is that shahadah (martyrdom) according to Allah is of the highest ranks for His allies. The shuhada are His special people, those brought close from amongst His slaves. There is no rank after that of the siddiqin except shahadah, and He c loves to take His slaves as shuhada, having their blood shed for His love and contentment, while they prefer His pleasure and love over their own selves. There is no way to achieve this rank except through those means that would lead to dominating the enemy. (End quote). Allah  says, “Fighting has been enjoined upon you while it is hateful to you. But perhaps you hate a thing and it is good for you; and perhaps you love a thing and it is bad for you. And Allah knows, while you know not” (Al-Baqarah 216). Ibnul-Qayyim says in al-Fawaid: In this ayah, there are several wisdoms, secrets, and benefits for the slave. For indeed the slave, when he knows that what he hates could bring what he loves, and that what he loves could bring what he hates, he will not consider himself safe from harm in what gives him joy, nor will he despair of gaining joy from what causes him harm, as he does not know the consequences. And indeed Allah knows what the slave does not know. This necessitates many things. Of them is that there is nothing more beneficial for him than complying with the command, even if that is difficult for him at first. This is because the consequences of doing so are entirely good and come with joy, pleasure, and delight – even if his soul hates it. As such, there is nothing more harmful to him than perpetrating what is prohibited, even if his soul desires it and inclines to it. This is because the consequences of that are entirely bad, causing grief, disturbance, and calamity. And a characteristic of the intellect is being able to bear some small pain in order to achieve the greater delight and abundant good, just as it is able to avoid some small delight because it leads to greater pain and long-term evil. Of the secrets of this ayah is that requires that the slave entrusts in the one who knows the consequences of matters and that he is content with what He chooses and decides for him, as he expects a good outcome for doing so. Of them is that he should not make his own recommendations over what his Lord has chosen for him, nor should he ask Him for that of which he has no knowledge, for it might be that it causes him harm and brings him ruin while he is unaware. Rather, he does not choose anything over his Lord’s decision, but only asks Him to choose what is best for him and asks that He makes him content with what He chooses for him – as there is nothing more beneficial for him than that. Of them is that he entrusts his affair entirely to Allah and is content with whatever He chooses for him, asking Him to give him the strength, resolve, and patience to see it through, that He averts all evils that he might have been exposed to if he were to have made his own decision, and that He shows him the good consequences of what He chose for him over the consequences of what he would have chosen for himself. Of them is that he gives rest to any distressful thoughts regarding the various choices, emptying his heart of all decisions and affairs of management, which would cause him to rise and fall, while he knows that there is no escaping what is decreed for him. Such that if he is content with Allah’s choice, the decree comes to him while he is commendable, thankful, and able to handle it. Otherwise, the decree would come to him while he is distraught and unable to handle it, for that was his own choice. And whenever his entrustment of affairs and contentment are sound, that which was decreed encompasses him with sympathy and favor, such that he abides therein, protected by its sympathy from its dangers and its favor makes what was decreed easy for him to handle. When the decree penetrates the slave, one of its greatest causes of influence over him is what pushes him to reject it. So there is nothing more beneficial to him than surrendering and throwing himself down in front of the decree, as if he were dead. For indeed, the beasts of prey are not content with feasting on corpses. (End quote). While sitting, she kept reminding me of Allah, And the tears from their affairs fell without end. O my uncle’s daughter, the decree of Allah directed me Forcibly, for could I prevent what Allah has done? And if I return, the Lord of creation has returned me, And if I meet my Lord, then seek a replacement. I was not crippled or blind, lest I be excused, Nor like those who were tight, unable to find a way. At-Tabari reported in his Tarikh, from Ibn Ishaq that a man of the companions of Allah’s Messenger g said, “My brother and I witnessed Uhud with Allah’s Messenger g and we came back injured. Then, when the muadhdhin of Allah’s Messenger g gave the order to go out and chase the enemy, I said to my brother, or he said to me, ‘Will we miss a raid with Allah’s Messenger g?’ By Allah, we had no animal to ride, and we were both heavily wounded. But we went out with Allah’s Messenger g. I was the least injured, so when he was unable, I would carry him a short way and he would walk a short way, until we reached the Muslims.” Abud-Darda said, “The peak of iman is to have patience with the rule and contentment with the decree.” And with this medicine we treat our wounds that arise here and there.