Every woman to whom Allah has granted the blessing of giving birth in the Islamic State should take advantage of this tremendous grace – which Allah c has not granted to many other women – and painstakingly endeavor to raise her children in a manner that pleases her Lord and brings benefit to her ummah. And why should she not? For she is the child-rearing, nursing, and educating mother, whereas the fathers are either working for the cause of Allah or stationed in ribat. ‘Abdullah Ibn ‘Umar  narrated, saying, “I heard Allah’s Messenger g say, ‘Every one of you is a shepherd and every one of you is responsible for his flock. The man is a shepherd over his family and is responsible for his flock, the woman is a shepherd in her husband’s home and is responsible for her flock, and the servant is a shepherd over his master’s wealth and is responsible for his flock’” (Reported by al-Bukhari and Muslim). The scholars have defined the shepherd as being a trusted guardian who pursues the well-being of what he has been entrusted to safeguard. So he is required to act justly towards it, take care of its interests, and will be asked as to whether he fulfilled what was obligatory on him concerning his flock or did not. When the Prophet g states, “The woman is a shepherd in her husband’s home and is responsible for her flock,” it is a tremendous task and an enormous trust that has been placed on the Muslim woman, and which contains what it contains of great reward and recompense if she fulfills what is obligatory upon her with respect to her flock, which are her children. It likewise contains what it contains of reckoning and punishment if she puts this trust to loss and shows neglect concerning her flock. Allah c said, “O you who have believed, protect yourselves and your families from a Fire whose fuel is people and stones” (At-Tahrim 6). Ibn ‘Umar  said to a man, “Discipline your son, for you will be asked concerning your son, ‘Upon what did you discipline him, and what did you teach him,’ and he will be asked concerning his pious conduct towards you and his obedience to you” (Reported by al-Bayhaqi). Begin with Tawhid The first thing that the Muslim woman must do when her children first begin speaking is to teach them the testimony “There is no god but Allah and Muhammad is the Messenger of Allah” along with its meaning. Among that which is reported from ‘Ali Ibn al-Husayn r is that he would teach his child, telling him, “Say, ‘I believe in Allah and disbelieve in taghut’” (Reported by Ibn Abi Shaybah). Likewise, the mother should teach her child the three principles: “Who is your lord?” “What is your religion?” and “Who is your prophet?” Likewise, she should ask the child, “Where is Allah?” and “What is the Quran?” and other such questions which establish the foundation for a sound ‘aqidah and pure tawhid within the child. And among the most beautiful things that a child can learn is that Allah c is with His slave. So he learns to fear Allah , internally venerates the affair of his Creator, and perceives that He is watching him in secret and in public. And here you have ‘Abdullah at-Tustari r who, as a child, would repeatedly utter before sleeping, “Allah witnesses me, Allah sees me, Allah is with me” (Reported by Ibn Abi Shaybah). The Mother’s Uprightness Is Reason for Her Children’s Reform It is upon the model, educating mother to reform herself so that she can succeed in reforming her children in her home, for indeed the uprightness of the flock is connected to the uprightness of the shepherd, and the uprightness of the children is connected to the uprightness of the mother. Ibn Abid-Dunya narrated that ‘Atabah Ibn Abi Sufyan said to his son’s instructor, “O Abu ‘Abdis-Samad, let your first means of reforming my children be that you reform yourself, for indeed their deficiencies will be tied to your deficiency. They will consider whatever you do to be good and will consider to be indecent whatever you deem to be so” (An-Nafaqatu ‘alal-‘Iyal). Accustoming Them to Zuhd and a Harsh Lifestyle The mother should likewise cultivate within her children that this dunya is a place of journey and that the Hereafter is the place of permanent settlement. Allah  states upon the tongue of the believer from among the family of Fir’awn, “O my people, this worldly life is only [temporary] enjoyment, and indeed, the Hereafter – that is the home of permanent settlement” (Ghafir 39). As such, these children should practice zuhd with respect to this fleeting dunya, so that the worldly life becomes trivial to them and the Hereafter becomes significant to them, with the mother nurturing them upon a difficult life and some aspect of rough living. She should teach them the meaning of zuhd and the fact that the blessings which they enjoy are transient, and there’s nothing better in this regard than the sirah of the Prophet g, the imam of all ascetics. ‘Urwah narrated saying, “‘Aishah  said, ‘We would see one crescent moon, and then another, and then another – three crescents in two months – and no fire would have been lit in the houses of Allah’s Messenger g!’ I said, ‘O my aunt, what was it that used to sustain you?’ She said, ‘The two black things – dates and water. However, Allah’s Messenger g had neighbors from the Ansar who had some sheep and would give us from their milk’” (Reported by al-Bukhari and Muslim). Abu Hurayrah  narrated that the Prophet g said, “O Allah, make the sustenance of Muhammad’s family nourishing” (Reported by al-Bukhari and Muslim). Ibn Hajar said, “‘Nourishing,’ meaning: Suffice them with as much nourishment as will neither burdensomely force them into the humiliation of begging nor contain such excess as to provoke them towards luxury and towards widening the extent to which they engage themselves in the Dunya” (Fath al-Bari). Yes, this is what the Prophet g asked Him  for the members of his household despite Jibril  having come to him with the keys to the treasures of the earth, from which he abstained. Abu Hurayrah  narrated, saying, “The family of Muhammad never ate food to their full until his soul was taken” (Reported by al-Bukhari). And here you have the Prophet g – the chosen and beloved of Allah, and the best of His creation – sleeping on a mat made of date palm leaves, to the extent that he would bleed from his sides. ‘Umar  saw him and began weeping because of that, so the Prophet g said to him, “What makes you weep?” So he said, “O Allah’s Messenger, Khosrau and Caesar have what they have [of luxury], yet you are the Messenger of Allah.” So the Prophet g said, “Are you not pleased that for them is the Dunya and for us is the Hereafter?” (Reported by al-Bukhari and Muslim). Such was the condition of our prophet – may our Lord’s blessings and peace be upon him – in this dunya, and such is the likes of what the generation of the Khilafah must be raised upon so that it becomes a firm and course generation which life has tested and strengthened, and so it can thereby prepare to bear the trust, take up the banner, and assume authority in the land. Abu ‘Uthman an-Nahdi narrated, saying, “A letter came to us from ‘Umar Ibn al-Khattab saying, ‘Accustom yourselves to coarse food and clothing, adopt a coarse way of living, prepare and assemble yourselves, maintain a coarse lifestyle as if you were Ma’add, and beware of comfort and of the clothing of the non-Arabs’” (Reported by at Tahawi in Sharh Ma’ani al-Athar). Raising Them to Love Fighting for the Cause of Allah From among the greatest of Allah’s blessings upon the lion cubs in the Khilafah – which the mother should recognize and take advantage of, and for which she should thank Allah c – is that they are raised in the home and under the wing of a mujahid father. So they grow up with their eyes becoming accustomed to seeing weapons and equipment, including rifles, tactical vests, bullets, grenades, and explosive belts. Likewise, watching the mujahidin’s video releases and following their written and recorded news nurtures within the lion cub the love of jihad and the mujahidin and hatred towards their enemies. The mother may hear criticism from some people who would argue that the manner in which she raises her children might kill their childhood and destroy their innocence. To such people we say: Abu Ya’la reported with a sound isnad that Abu Hurayrah  narrated, saying, “Al-Hasan and al-Husayn  were wrestling in front of Allah’s Messenger g, and Allah’s Messenger g said, ‘Come on, Hasan!’ (i.e. cheering him on). So Fatimah  said, ‘O Allah’s Messenger, why do you say, ‘Come on, Hasan?’ He said, ‘Indeed, Jibril  is saying, ‘Come on, Husayn!’” Al-Bukhari reported in his Sahih that ‘Abdur-Rahman Ibn ‘Awf said, “I was standing on the Day of Badr in the battle formation, and I looked to my right and to my left and found myself between two young boys from the Ansar and wished that I were standing between others who were stronger than them. One of them winked at me and said, ‘Uncle, do you recognize Abu Jahl?’ I said, ‘Yes, but why do you ask, O nephew?’ He said, ‘It has reached me that he insulted Allah’s Messenger g, and by Him in whose hand is my soul, if I were to see him I would not leave him until the first of us destined to die had died.’ Then the other one winked at me and said the same thing. So I was amazed at that, and no sooner did I see Abu Jahl roaming among the people than I said to them, ‘Can’t you see? This is your friend whom you’re asking about.’ So they rushed towards him and he faced them. Then they struck him until they killed him and then left to go to Allah’s Messenger g and informed him. So he said, ‘Which of you two killed him?’ Each one of them said, ‘I killed him.’ He said, ‘Have you wiped your swords?’ They said, ‘No.’ So Allah’s Messenger g looked at both of the swords and said, ‘Both of you killed him.’” It is reported in al Bidayah wan-Nihayah that Hisham Ibn ‘Urwah narrated, saying, “The first thing that ‘Abdullah Ibn az-Zubayr said when he was little was ‘the sword, the sword,’ and he wouldn’t stop saying that. When az-Zubayr would hear that he would say, ‘By Allah, you will have one victory, and another, and several more.’” ‘Urwah Ibn az-Zubayr narrated that az-Zubayr mounted his son ‘Abdullah on a horse on the Day of [the Battle of] Yarmuk when he was ten years old and entrusted him to another man (Reported by al- Bukhari). Showing Great Concern for the Arabic Language How wonderful would it be for the Muslim mother to strive to ensure that her children speak the Arabic language and ensure that their Arabic is correct and free of linguistic errors, and for her to strive to teach them the Arabic language if they are not Arabs, so that they can learn the affairs of their religion and mix and associate with the Jama’ah of the Muslims. Al-Khatib al-Baghdadi reported that ‘Ali, Ibn ‘Abbas, and Ibn ‘Umar  would beat their children for making linguistic errors. Such was the concern they showed towards the language in which the Book of Allah was revealed. We ask Allah to grant us righteous offspring and to bring forth from us a generation that will wage jihad for His cause and bring victory to His religion.