Obedience was never just a type of worship, rather it is worship itself, for it is obedience to Allah in accordance with that which He has ordered upon the tongues of His messengers , and that he doesn’t obey anyone from among the creation except that this obedience of his falls under Allah’s obedience, otherwise it is not necessary to obey any of the creation independently – and what is meant here is the obedience that is specific to making haram what is halal or making halal what is haram. So whoever obeys a created being in that regard – other than the Messenger g, for he does not speak from his whims – then he is a mushrik, as Allah c made clear in His statement, “They have taken their scribes” meaning their scholars, “and monks” meaning their devout worshipers “as lords besides Allah, and [also] the Messiah, the son of Mary. And they were not commanded except to worship one God; there is no god except Him. Exalted is He above whatever they associate with Him” (At-Tawbah 31). This was explained by the Prophet g as their obedience in making haram what is halal, and making halal what is haram, as will be mentioned in the hadith of ‘Adi. So if it is said that Allah c has stated, “O you who have believed, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you” (An-Nisa 59), then it is said, they are the scholars, and it is said they are the leaders, and these are two explanations reported from Ahmad. Ibnul-Qayyim said, “Analysis reveals that the verse encompasses both groups. It is said that it is obligatory to obey them if they command obedience to Allah and obedience to His Messenger. The scholars are conveyers of the orders of Allah and the orders of His Messenger, and those in authority are the executors of those orders, so it then becomes obligatory to obey them in accordance with obedience to Allah and His Messenger, as he g said, ‘There is no obedience in disobedience, rather obedience is in what is righteous’ (Al-Bukhari and Muslim). He g also said, ‘Upon a person is to listen and obey as long as he is not ordered with disobedience, for if he is ordered with disobedience then there is no listening and no obeying.’ Both ahadith are sahih, so there is nothing in this verse that contradicts the verse of Baraah (i.e. At-Tawbah). “Ibn ‘Abbas said, ‘Stones are about to rain on you from the sky! I say: ‘Allah’s Messenger g said,’ and you say: ‘Abu Bakr and ‘Umar said?!’’ […] “This is what Ibn ‘Abbas said to one who disputed with him regarding combining Hajj and ‘Umrah in the time of Hajj, which Ibn ‘Abbas used to order. The one disputing challenged him with Abu Bakr and ‘Umar’s prohibition of this, implying, ‘They both are more knowledgeable than you [Ibn ‘Abbas] and more deserving of being followed.’ So Ibn ‘Abbas said those words that were pronounced from pure faith and from the absolute nature of his following of Allah’s Messenger g, regardless if anyone opposed him for that – and regardless of who they may be – as ash-Shafi’i said, ‘The scholars have agreed that whoever the Sunnah of Allah’s Messenger g has become apparent to, it is not for him to leave it on account of the saying of any other person’” (Madarij as-Salikin). So if that was the saying of Ibn ‘Abbas to the one who opposed him with Abu Bakr and ‘Umar – and they are who they are – what would you expect he would say to one who opposes the Sunnah of Allah’s Messenger g with his imam or the founder of his madhhab, which he attributes himself to, and makes his statement a standard of measure over the Quran and Sunnah, such that whatever is in agreement with his madhhab he accepts and whatever opposes it he rejects or reinterprets?! And Allah’s help is sought. And how good is that which was stated by some of the later scholars: So if there came to them evidence in agreement With what the preceding forefathers were upon They’ d be pleased or say, “This needs interpretation,” And they would go to great lengths to interpret it. And there is no doubt that this falls under the statement of Allah c, “They took their scribes and monks as lords besides Allah…” (At-Tawbah 31). Shaykh Muhammad Ibn ‘Abdil-Wahhab said, “Ahmad Ibn Hanbal said, ‘I am amazed at a people who know the authenticity of a chain of narrators, yet they go to the opinion of Sufyan, while Allah c says, ‘So let those beware who dissent from his (i.e. the Prophet’s) order, lest fitnah strike them’ (An-Nur 63). Do you know what that fitnah is? That fitnah is shirk. Perhaps if he were to reject some of his statements there would fall into his heart something of deviance and he would therefore perish.’ This was the statement of Ahmad, reported from him by al-Fadl Ibn Ziyad and Abu Talib. “Al-Fadl narrated that Ahmad said, ‘I looked in the Quran and I found [the order to have] obedience to the Messenger in thirty-three places.’ Then he began to recite the verse, ‘So let those beware who dissent from his (i.e. the Prophet’s) order, lest fitnah strike them…’ (An Nur 63), and he kept on repeating it and said, ‘And what is fitnah except shirk. Perhaps if he were to reject some of his statements there would fall into his heart something of deviance and his heart would become deviated and would destroy him.’ He then began to recite the verse, ‘But no, by your Lord, they will not believe until they make you, [O Muhammad], judge concerning that over which they dispute among themselves’ (An-Nisa 65). “Abu Talib narrated that it was said to Ahmad, ‘There are people who leave the hadith and turn towards the opinion of Sufyan.’ So he said, ‘I am amazed at a people who have heard the hadith and they know the chain of narrators and its authenticity, yet they leave it and they take the opinion of Sufyan and others. Allah says, ‘So let those beware who dissent from his (i.e. the Prophet’s) order, lest fitnah strike them or a painful punishment afflict them’ (An-Nur 63). And do you know what that fitnah is? It is kufr. Allah c says, ‘And fitnah is greater than killing’ (Al-Baqarah 217). So they leave the hadith from Allah’s Messenger g and their whims overcome them and take them towards opinion.’ This was mentioned by Shaykhul-Islam.” I say: The statements of Ahmad in censure of blind following and in denunciation of writing books of opinion are very well-known. His statement, “they know the chain of narrators,” meaning: the chain of narrators of the hadith, “and its authenticity,” meaning: the authenticity of the chain of narrators, and its authenticity is an evidence for the authenticity of the hadith. His statement, “and they take the opinion of Sufyan,” meaning: ath-Thawri, the imam, the zahid, the devout worshiper, the trustworthy, the faqih. He had followers and a popular madhhab, but it didn’t survive. The intent of Ahmad was to denounce the one who knows the authenticity of a hadith, yet after that blindly follows Sufyan or others, and excuses himself with false justifications, such as, “following the ahadith is ijtihad, and ijtihad ended a long time ago,” or that “the imam that I am following is more knowledgeable than me, so he doesn’t speak except with knowledge, and he wouldn’t leave that hadith, for example, except with knowledge,” or that this is ijtihad, and the condition for someone to be a mujtahid is that he must be knowledgeable of the Quran and the Sunnah of Allah’s Messenger g and of the verses and ahadith which are abrogated as well as those which abrogate them, and be knowledgeable of both the authentic and weak ahadith, and be knowledgeable of the different methods of deriving evidences, and of the Arabic language, grammar, usul, and other such conditions which might not be entirely found in Abu Bakr and ‘Umar , as the author mentioned. It is said to such an individual, “If this is true, then they intend by this an absolute mujtahid. As for this being a condition for the permissibility of acting upon the Quran and the Sunnah then this is a lie against Allah and His Messenger g, and against the imams of the scholars. Rather, what is obligatory and necessary upon the believer if the [evidence from the] Book of Allah and the Sunnah of His Messenger g reach him and he knows its meaning – concerning any issue – is that he act upon it regardless of who opposes him for doing so. This is what our Lord  ordered us with and likewise our Prophet g, and the scholars – including Abu ‘Umar Ibn ‘Abdil-Barr and others – unanimously agreed on this, but not the ignorant and rough-mannered blind followers, as their likes are not from the people of knowledge, and there is ijma’ that they are not from the people of knowledge. Allah c said, “Follow what has been revealed to you from your Lord and do not follow other than Him any allies. Little do you remember” (Al-A’raf 3). And He c said, “And if you obey him, you will be guided. And there is not upon the Messenger except the [responsibility for] clear conveyance” (An-Nur 54). So He c testified that the one who obeys the Messenger g is guided. As for the rough-mannered blind followers, they consider that the one who obeys him g is not guided, and that rather the guided one is he who disobeys him and abstains from his sayings and turns away from his Sunnah towards a madhhab or shaykh or other than that. And many people have fallen into this forbidden blind following. They are from among those who claim to have knowledge and understanding of the religion’s principles, and from those who compile books of hadith, but despite that, you find him rigid upon one of the madhahib, considering it a tremendous deal for anyone to leave these madhhabs. In the statement of Ahmad is an indication that blind following before the establishment of proof is not blameworthy. Rather, what is disparaged, condemned, and prohibited is to remain upon that after the proof has been conveyed. Yes, and he denounces turning away from the Book of Allah and the Sunnah of His Messenger g, and embarking upon the study of the complied books of fiqh, sufficing oneself of the Quran and the Sunnah with such books. Rather, even if such people recite something from the Book of Allah or the Sunnah of His Messenger g, they recite it only for blessings, not for learning or understanding it. And there are those who have read Sahih al-Bukhari, for example, for the purpose of achieving a position of employment, not for the purpose of learning the Shari’ah. So these people are most deserving of being considered as those mentioned in the statement of Allah c, “We have certainly given you from Us the Quran. Whoever turns away from it, then indeed, he will bear on the Day of Resurrection a burden, [abiding] eternally therein, and evil it is for them on the Day of Resurrection as a load” (Ta Ha 99-101), and likewise His c statement, “And whoever turns away from My remembrance, indeed, he will have a depressed life, and We will gather him on the Day of Resurrection blind” (Ta Ha 124), up to His statement, “And the punishment of the Hereafter is more severe and more enduring” (Ta Ha 127). So if you ask, “Then what is permissible for an individual with regards to reading these books authored about the madhhab?” The answer is that it is permissible to read them for the purpose of seeking the help of these books to understand the Quran and Sunnah and to properly conceptualize the issues being studied, such that they become akin to workbooks. But as for these books being made to supersede the Book of Allah and the Sunnah of His Messenger g, using them to judge between the people on what they differ and calling the people to seek judgment from them instead of seeking judgment from Allah and the Messenger g, then there is no doubt that this negates iman and stands in opposition to it, as He c said, “But no, by your Lord, they do not have faith until they make you, [O Muhammad], judge concerning that over which they dispute among themselves and then find within themselves no discomfort towards what you have judged and submit in [full, willing] submission” (An-Nisa 65). So if you refer to it for judgment of disputes instead of referring to Allah and His Messenger, and then when Allah and His Messenger have decided on a matter you find in yourself discomfort, but when the People of the Book judge on a matter you don’t find any discomfort, then after if the Messenger g judges on a matter you don’t submit to it, yet if they judge on a matter you submit to it, then Allah c has sworn – and He is the most truthful in speech – by the most majestic of those who can be sworn by, and that is Himself , that you are not a believer if this is your condition. Thereafter, Allah c has said, “Rather, man, against himself, will be a witness, even if he presents his excuses” (Al-Qiyamah 14-15). [Taken from the book, “Taysir al-‘Aziz al-Hamid fi Sharh Kitab at-Tawhid”].