All praise belongs to Allah. We praise Him, seek His aid, and ask for His forgiveness. We take refuge with Allah from the evil of our own selves and the evil of our actions. Whomever Allah guides, then there is none that can misguide him, and whomever He leaves astray, then there is none that can guide him. I bear witness that there is no god except Allah, who is One without any partner, and I bear witness that Muhammad  is His slave and messenger. To proceed: Allah  said, “O you who have believed, when you encounter a company [from the enemy forces], stand firm and remember Allah much that you may be successful. And obey Allah and His Messenger, and do not dispute and [thus] lose courage and [then] your strength would depart; and be patient. Indeed, Allah is with the patient” (Al-Anfal 45-46). And Allah  says, “So be patient. Indeed, the promise of Allah is truth. And let them not disquiet you who are not certain [in faith]” (Ar-Rum 60). It is patience, steadfastness, and certainty in the promise of Allah, despite the tribulations and difficulty, despite the various parties viciously mobilizing, despite the roaring of multiple rocket launchers and aerial bombardments. Those who have trust and certainty in their Lord’s support remain unfaltering and perseverant, anticipating their reward, marching forth and not turning their backs. They were not weakened by the tremors – as if powerless and perplexed or erratic and faint of heart. Rather, in the darkness of night they straddled the light of truth and kindled with their blood the torch of guidance, while shunning the paths of deviance. From the book of their Lord they nourished themselves and upon the Sunnah of their Prophet  did they proceed and work. They knew that victory is indeed from Allah and that it was never for a moment due to the magnitude of manpower or equipment. For indeed Allah is Mighty and none can overpower Him. Indeed He is the Compeller who forsakes him who has climaxed in strength and manpower. He is wise as He decrees affairs, with all their means, as He puts things in their rightful places. He is wise in His administering and granting victory to whom He grants victory, and in abandoning whomever He abandons of His slaves. Neither weakness nor defect can penetrate His administration. He said, and His word is unmistakable, “If Allah should aid you, no one can overcome you; but if He should forsake you, who is there that can aid you after Him? And upon Allah let the believers rely” (Al ’Imran 160). Yes, indeed the promise of Allah is true, as is His command to His believing slaves. So His Sunnah and His wisdom in the creation is constant. He sends down tribulations whenever He wills and lifts them whenever He wills, knowing that nothing in the heavens or the earth can incapacitate Him. And if He decrees a matter, He but says to it, “Be,” and it becomes. He said, and His word is the truth, “Or do you think that you will enter Jannah while such [trial] has not yet come to you as came to those who passed on before you? They were touched by poverty and hardship and were shaken until [even their] messenger and those who believed with him said, ‘When is the help of Allah?’ Unquestionably, the help of Allah is near” (Al-Baqarah 214). And indeed the Sunnah of Allah requires that victory will not be achieved without uprightness upon His  orders and through sincerely returning to Him, so whoever is most supportive to the religion of Allah, and the greatest in his jihad against His enemies, and the most upright in his obedience to Allah and His Messenger, then he is indeed greatest in support, obedience, and sanctity. O ummah of Islam, time has passed and today history is repeating itself. It is a scene that resembles the situation of Dar al-Islam in previous times since generations passed and great events raged, leaving an effect that could not be erased and a deep wound in the body of the Ummah that would not heal. But it is a lesson from those who preceded and a means of distancing the Muslim jama’ah from a slippery slope and an abyss that may lead them to actual destruction by stripping them of their religion, such that they perish upon other than the religion of Islam. So here is Crusader America and its allies returning in an attack against Dar al-Islam and the land of the Khilafah, and it has not occurred in history that the nations of kufr gathered with all their religions and creeds, in collusion with those falsely attributing themselves to Ahlus-Sunnah, from the murtadd rulers and the evil scholars and callers – even those claimants to jihad and a sound manhaj – all of them in one rank with the nations of kufr against the sons of Islam in the Khilafah state. Nevertheless, the difference between that past period and invasion and what we are experiencing today is that the Muslim state of those old times was in the worst of conditions, distant from its religion and its Lord, divided by the kings of the taifas,1 so Allah empowered an enemy that swept into the homes, destroying both hearth and offspring. As for today, and despite the severity of the assault and the raging struggle from the East and the West against Dar al-Islam, the situation of the Muslims in the land of the Khilafah differs from that previous period, for the Islamic State is the one who confronts and defends Dar al-Islam and incites the people of faith, refining the zeal of the youth of Islam to liberate themselves from the bondages of slavery and subordination to the nations of kufr, and it is they who have plunged into a fierce and deadly war in defense of their ummah, and who have spared no effort in warring, confronting, and repelling on its behalf, with everything that they were given of power and various methods and means. The Khilafah state, by Allah’s grace and bounty, continues to drag the Muslims back to their religion in chains, while the scholars of the tawaghit and the mouthpieces of evil hinder others and go astray, and insist that the people of Islam remain lowly and humiliated, being led by the nations of the cross and their subordinates of the murtadd rulers. However, by Allah’s granting it success, the Khilafah state recognized the disease and realized its cure, and it is continuing upon its path by Allah’s permission and for Allah’s sake, not caring for the blame of the blamer, until it hands the banner to ‘Isa Ibn Maryam . O ummah of Islam, indeed we are a people whom Allah has honored with Islam, so we shall never seek honor in anything else. And we will never mend the last of this ummah except through what mended the first of it. And no one was honored through his religion except one who realized tawhid, and lived with wala and bara, which became a defining characteristic of his in all matters of his life and manners, through thick and thin and hardship and ease, when enemies abound and hardship increases. He does not direct his face to Astana, nor does he refer to the tawaghit. Certainly not! Rather, he stays within the bounds of the religion and keeps to the example of the father of the prophets, saying to the nations of kufr, “Indeed, we are disassociated from you and from whatever you worship other than Allah. We have denied you, and there has appeared between us and you animosity and hatred forever until you believe in Allah alone” (Al-Mumtahanah 4). This is the way of the guided believers, and anything else is the way of the transgressing disbelievers, those who deviated and replaced the shari’ah of the Lord of the creation. O soldiers of the Khilafah and lions of Islam, know that the mercy of Allah and His jannah are not attained by hopes alone, nor does Allah grant forgiveness and abundant mercy except to the truthful, patient, and steadfast who believe in what He promised them. Do you not read the word of your Lord, “Indeed, Allah has purchased from the believers their lives and their properties [in exchange] for that they will have Jannah. They fight in the cause of Allah, so they kill and are killed. [It is] a true promise [incumbent] upon Him in the Torah and the Gospel and the Quran. And who is truer to his covenant than Allah? So rejoice in your transaction which you have contracted. And it is that which is the great attainment” (At-Tawbah 111)? And the principle of purchases between the creation is just as al-Qurtubi  said, that they are compensated for what left has their possession with what is more beneficial for them or at least equal in benefit. So Allah  purchased from His slaves the destruction of their lives and their wealth in His obedience, and their being killed in seeking His pleasure, and He  gave them Jannah as compensation for that if they do so. This is a great compensation of unparalleled and incomparable worth. So He explained that through what they know of transactions and purchases – the slave must surrender his life and wealth, and Allah offers reward and favor, and such is called a purchase. O soldiers of the Khilafah, by the Lord of the heavens and the earth, the transaction is profitable! We will not stop or resign, by Allah’s permission. So be truthful when encountering the enemy, for whoever loves to meet Allah, then Allah loves to meet him. That is the lucrative business, which Allah specified for His believing slaves who sell their lives cheaply for His cause in order to make His word supreme and establish His shari’ah. The goal towards which the mujahid in the cause of Allah aspires is to achieve the pleasure, pardon, generosity, granting of success, and blessings of his Lord. That is done by conforming to His command, avoiding what He prohibited, and fighting against His enemies in every arena until the religion is entirely for Allah and the entire earth is ruled by the Shari’ah of Allah. So if he lives, he lives with honor. And if he dies, he dies with dignity. Such was the condition of the companions of Allah’s Messenger  and the Salaf of this ummah, those who were the best of the best generations. And this is in the glad tidings given by your Prophet , when he said, “Allah has guaranteed for whoever goes forth in His cause, [saying], ‘He does not go forth except to wage jihad in My cause, having iman in Me, and affirming My messengers, so he has My guarantee that I will enter him into Jannah or return him to his home from which he left, achieving what he gained of reward or ghanimah.’ By the One in whose hand is the soul of Muhammad, there is no injury sustained in the cause of Allah, except that it comes on the Day of Judgment in its form when it was sustained: its color will be the color of blood, but its scent will be that of musk. By the One in whose hand is the soul of Muhammad, if it were not a hardship upon the Muslims, I would have never remained behind from a detachment that went to battle in Allah’s cause. But I do not find the provision enough to carry [all of those who would come with me], nor do they find provision enough, and it would be a hardship on them to be away from me. And by the One in whose hand is the soul of Muhammad, I would have loved to fight in the cause of Allah and be killed, then fight and be killed, then fight and be killed” (Reported by Muslim from Abu Hurayrah). O people, has not the story of those who remained steadfast come to you? Did not the news reach your ears? And which news? Indeed, by my Lord, and which news?! In a time, in which the trials are great and dominance is with the people of kufr and the worst of mankind… tell whoever has slipped into the muck and deviated from the truth about the people of iman, those who command virtue and forbid vice, those who knocked on the doors of Crusader Europe with warnings and tidings, until their ears were deafened and they were filled with fear, terror, and panic. They knew that these were the precursors of death. The camp of iman has risen, by the grace of Allah, and has not failed, just as the camp of kufr has deviated and declined. Wherever you go, then there is Sirte to tell you of her people, of the muhajirin, the ansar, the best, the pure – those who positioned the banner of tawhid in the ground of Libya, raising it high as it waves, after they cast away division and discord and preferred unifying the rank and joining their word, in obedience to Allah and His Messenger. So they pledged allegiance to the Khalifah of the Muslims and their Imam, and Allah opened for them several areas, in which they ruled by the Shari’ah of Allah, established the religion, implemented the hudud, commanded virtue, and forbade vice. The arrogant became angered by this, so the Crusader nations mobilized and prepared, giving them hope of aid, allegiance, and obedience in warring with Islam and its people. Most of that campaign and mobilization was undertaken by the brethren of Shaytan, the heretics of this age. So for the sake of their war against the Khilafah, they employed all they possessed of energy, ability, and fatwas through which they permitted riddah and becoming agents of the Crusaders, just as they permitted the inviolable and sacred blood. By the grace of Allah, the soldiers of the Khilafah and grandsons of the excellent conquerors stood firm during the most aggressive campaign witnessed by the region – their firmness was that of the greatest mountains – as they were dignified by their religion, held high by their iman, sacrificing themselves, their families, wealth, and children, saying with all certainty and perseverance, “Say, ‘Do you await for us except one of the two best things while we await for you that Allah will afflict you with punishment from Himself or at our hands? So wait; indeed we, along with you, are waiting’” (At- Tawbah 52). So they frustrated the subordinates of the Crusaders, exchanging assaults with them for nearly half a year or more, in a war that consumed and left nothing behind. And the men of Islam and the soldiers of the Khilafah went forth to their Lord after they excused themselves and fulfilled their oaths; such do we consider them and Allah is their judge. “And they resented them not except because they believed in Allah, the Exalted in Might, the Praiseworthy, to whom belongs the dominion of the heavens and the earth. And Allah, over all things, is Witness” (Al- Buruj 8-9). The steadfastness of that mujahid ummah has had the greatest effect, after they preferred to be killed and to die in Allah’s cause, being patient and persevering, not withdrawing from any land ruled by Allah’s shari’ah, nor surrendering it to a people who disbelieved in Allah, the Lord of the creation. They struck a living example for the people of iman of patience, perseverance, vigilance, and sacrifice. As they sold their blood and souls cheaply, they did so calling the people of Islam to recognize their truthful sons, those who refused all except to be the bridge across which the Ummah would cross to the fields of dignity, dominion, victory, and consolidation by the permission of Allah. They are two paths: either victory which we attain Or the garden of eternity: therein are the best of hosts, We did not fight with thousands whom we mobilized, A thousand for another completed thousand of heroes, We fight with the religion, which has been guaranteed Of victory, by its leaders in the first of our days, They were equipped with resolve for battle as armor, From truthful might, sufficient from needing tricks, They went to what mountains wane from in fear; Their unity was not startled, nor did it decline, Whoever prefers the truth will spend his blood for it, And whoever’s ambition is in the heights will reach it. Beware, beware, O soldiers of the Khilafah, of becoming soft to your enemy, for we have not instructed you with this. And this is exactly what the nations of kufr have witnessed, and at their head is America, which has not celebrated – by Allah’s grace – any victory since they dragged themselves into a war against Islam and Muslims. And we today, by Allah’s grace, have entered a new age in which the structure of the Khilafah has risen and transcended. So wherever kufr has flared up and roared, then it shall never see from us except that which disgraces it, by the might and power of Allah, for He is our sufficiency and the best to be trusted. Indeed, Allah is our supporter against them. Yes, indeed Allah is our supporter against them. And what are these but the first glimpses of the coming epic battles, the victor of which will be whoever is patient and truthful, not the one who tries to race ahead – and lessons are only learned at the end. O soldiers of Islam and the standard-bearers in Libya, remember Allah in regards to you religion and your ummah! Let not Islam be overtaken because of you after your brothers have fulfilled their covenant, accepting no humiliation. And indeed, if you have patience and are steadfast upon the truth, and if you remain certain, then you will see the good fruits of that tender sapling, by Allah’s permission, which was quenched by the purest of blood and limbs. It was said to Imam Ahmad Ibn Hanbal  during the days of the Mihnah,2 “O Abu ‘Abdillah, do you not see how falsehood has prevailed over the truth?” So he said, “Certainly not! The prevalence of falsehood over the truth is only when the hearts move from guidance to deviance, and our hearts are still adhering to the truth!” And your brothers have passed with their steadfastness and patience as an example to be followed and a conduct to be repeated. So seek the help of Allah and beware of letting the apostates find comfort in their lives or sweetness in their slumber, for war alternates, the days are taken in turns, and the good end belongs to those who are pious. O Ahlus-Sunnah in Iraq and Sham, O Ahlus- Sunnah! The factions of the people of kufr and the Crusader nations have prepared themselves. America leads them in the war against the Khilafah in Iraq, Sham, and everywhere to which its authority has reached. They think that they will extinguish the embers of jihad burning in the souls of the Muslims, that they will smother the flames of dignity that have been ignited in their hearts, after there has come a khilafah for the people of Islam, their flocks have been gathered, their ranks have been united, and their word has been joined together under a single imam, a single flag, and with a single goal. Here they are today, having spared no effort to capture the areas of the Islamic State’s influence, that state which still remains your hardened fortress and solid armor against the Rafidah, the Nusayriyyah, and the atheists. And you have seen and heard of the Crusaders gathering against Mosul and Tal’afar, as well as what the most noble of the sons of the Khilafah have spent in defending and protecting them. And we would not think you to be ignorant of the great sacrifice of its sons from the muhajirin and the ansar, as you have seen – by Allah’s grace – that the bravery, spending one’s soul cheaply in the cause of Allah, and ruining it for His pleasure has become the norm and goal of the best of the sons of Islam, those who were picked out from the tribes of the world. You even see the ansari racing against his brother the muhajir, and the istishhadi operations – by Allah’s success and generosity – is not limited to the young in exclusion of the elderly. Rather, all of them are racing one another. And young men who view being killed as glorious, And elderly men, who were tested through wars. So die in your rage, America, die in your rage! An ummah, whose young and old race towards death and destroy themselves cheaply in Allah’s cause, will never be defeated. And a generation, whose concern is for the Akhirah and the good end, will never be overcome. So rise, O Ahlus-Sunnah, to supporting your brothers and join their ranks, and take a stance upon which you would be pleased to meet Allah thereon, so that He would be pleased with you. Indeed, the Crusaders and the nations of kufr today march for a wicked effort and rapid plot, seeking to empty your areas, O Ahlus-Sunnah in Iraq and Sham, to be under the control of the Rafidah, the Nusayriyyah, and the Kurdish atheists. For they have always known that you are the severest of people in enmity to them, as well as the most dangerous of them against the little Jewish state and their agents, equally from the apostate governments in the Gulf and those in the region. That, as well as what they fear for their benefits and interests in the usurped lands of the Muslims. They have thrust their claws into the Ummah’s body for centuries, so it is time that those claws are pulled out and those hands are severed, by the permission of Allah, through iman, steadfastness, reliance, patience, and the determination of the sons of the Khilafah, inshaallah. Such are the divine promises, whether they accept that or refuse and whether they plan or plot, for it will never be but the command and decree of Allah, as Allah has vouched for Sham and its people. And we think well of our Lord, so He will never abandon us. Allah’s Messenger  said, “You will be mobilized in troops: a troop in Sham, a troop in Iraq, and a troop in Yemen.” Ibn Hawalah said, “O Messenger of Allah, choose for me.” He said, “You must go to Sham, but whoever does not must go to Yemen and drink from its streams, for indeed Allah has vouched to me for Sham and its people” (Reported by Ibn Hibban). The troops of the Muslims will never leave their places, by Allah’s permission, in Sham, Iraq, Yemen, or any spot in the lands of the Muslims to which the Khilafah’s authority as extended. And if the politicians of kufr and their Crusader masters think that they will surpass the divine promises and the events that have been foretold to pass, or if they think that they were succeeded by killing the sons of Islam in a battle or in a region, a city, or a town, then they are mistaken. Those men who fulfilled and were truthful to their promises did not go forth except that we consider of them – and Allah is their judge – to be of those who were serious in their efforts, seeking death in its most likely of places and hoping for it. It is far too late, O worshipers of the cross, for indeed Allah is fulfilling His promise to His slaves. “Allah has promised those who have believed among you and done righteous deeds that He will surely grant them succession [to authority] upon the earth just as He granted it to those before them and that He will surely establish for them [therein] their religion which He has preferred for them and that He will surely substitute for them, after their fear, security, [for] they worship Me, not associating anything with Me. But whoever disbelieves after that – then those are the defiantly disobedient” (An-Nur 55). And O Ahlus-Sunnah in Sham, you’ve witnessed the deeds of the allies of kufr in the city of Bab and its countryside, as well as what the army of the apostate Ikhwani Turk and his abandoned dogs from the Sahwat of cuckoldry, lowliness, and treachery have perpetrated of the massacre of Ahlus-Sunnah. The city has suffered an enormous amount damage from the bombardment of the Russians, the Americans, and their apostate agents. They did not show mercy to the women, the children, and the elderly men from among the common Muslims residing there. And the atheists from among the Kurds, and likewise the Nusayriyyah, viciously mobilized against the villages surrounding the city, taking advantage of the fierce onslaught against Ahlus-Sunnah, and we did not hear any of the evil, wicked scholars – may Allah curse and disgrace them – denouncing, condemning, or demonstrating jealous rage on account of the sanctities, and they are not the type of people to do so. And you almost don’t hear their cacophony except when they defame the mujahidin and accuse them of the most hideous and repulsive descriptions, and by Allah, they are nothing but a spear which the Crusaders have sharpened against anyone who wants to return the Ummah to its previous status and its past glory, and who fights and torments the factions of the global kufr that is perched on the chest of the Ummah and is waging war against the Muslims. So comprehend, O Ahlus-Sunnah in Sham, and understand what is wanted with you, for indeed the Islamic State has not closed its door for a single day in the face of any individual coming to it either in truthfulness or in repentance. And it does not desire for you anything except that which is good and that in which there is honor for you. You were afflicted previously with those of the apostate Sahwat who abandoned the city of Aleppo, went trotting behind the dollar to fight the Khilafah State, and surrendered Aleppo to the Nusayriyyah without a fight. And today they loot the homes of those who were driven out and killed from among the people of Bab while the dead from among its residents continue to remain under the rubble of what was demolished of the city, in the most base and humiliating display of lowliness, depravity, and treachery – and there is no sin [one would be ashamed of committing] after kufr. And don’t be surprised tomorrow when those who established and protected a ceasefire so that the Nusayri regime could catch its breath and unify its battlefronts against the Khilafah state become the Nusayriyyah’s partners in the nation and work to counter terrorism – those who refer to themselves as fronts, committees, and movements, and who have a different condition, state, and appearance each day just as a chameleon has colors. All of them are shields of the Cross, defenders of the Nusayriyyah, and a reason for what you face of hardship and distress. So you have no one after Allah – O Ahlus-Sunnah in Sham – except the Khilafah state to safeguard for you your religion, which contains your honor and the means of salvation from your distress, and to defend your honor and dignity. Therefore, come to your means of nobleness, come to your means of glory, come to that which will give you life and save you from Allah’s punishment – to jihad, to ribat, to a form of worship which you have neglected, as a result of which you went astray and donned the garment of disgrace and humiliation. By my Lord, you were not created in amusement, and indeed you have an appointed meeting in which you will meet your Lord and He will question you, so prepare an answer for the question. O soldiers of the Khilafah and O people of Islam, America, the chief of criminality and corruption, has been deceived by her strength, and arrogance has blinded her eyes, so she proceeded to wade into the swamp of her destruction and eradication. Yes, she will drown and there will be no escape. She attempts in vain to keep herself away from partaking, but did not succeed, and she was dragged by her legs to the land of Sham and Iraq, where she will release her death gargle. So after having fled and retreated in humiliation and defeat from Iraq, here she is returning, but these are promises, for we – by Allah’s grace – have honor and consolidation, and our condition is different from what she think. And neither her allies, nor the mob, nor the hyenas will not spare her from direct confrontation. And if we lose a city, an area, or a town, it is simply a trial and a purification of the Jama’ah of the Muslims, in order to cleanse the ranks and remove the filth, and so that Allah may choose from among His slaves whomever He wills. It is simply the ebb of the tide which will be followed by expansion and the great conquest – with Allah’s permission – of Baghdad, Dimashq, Quds, ‘Amman, the Peninsula of Muhammad , and the battalions of faith will certainly raid Persia, and they will conquer Qom and Tehran. Thereafter, we will certainly raid Rome, and the lions will roar with takbir and Constantinople will be conquered without a fight. It is the promise of our Lord and the glad tidings of our prophet , for indeed a generation has been raised in the land of the Khilafah upon tawhid and wala and bara, finding sweet the killing and death in the cause of their Lord, and dignity for their religion, so what can you do about it, America – what can you do? The effects of iman have entered into their blood. They have tasted might and the elevation of their religion. And how much have you spent, O America, to avert the people of Islam from their religion in Iraq, Khurasan, and the entire world? How much have you pushed yourself to mobilize others against the mujahidin, employing the scum of evil and corruption, yet without result? Indeed, without result. What you have hoped for has become too difficult for you, and your effort has gone to loss. Here are those who ride with their explosiveladen vehicles, and those who fight in the frontlines, whose beards have turned gray, though they have dyed them with blood. Certainly, Allah was truthful of His promise to us, and you – O America – have lied and were defeated the day He opened the lands to us, disgraced you, and made you and your troops a lesson and sign. You have spent wealth and employed all you own, which became – by Allah’s grace – cold spoils in the hands of the meek mujahidin. Certainly, Allah was truthful to His promise, supported His slaves, and honored His troops, and you – O America – have lied and were defeated. You have become a joke after a decade of spending, fatigue, and misery. And when you thought you finished off the mujahidin in Iraq and passed the leadership over to the Rafidah, we put the sword of truth to the necks of the Rafidah and tribal Sahwah apostates, who find their doom despite their arrogance, digging their own graves and being slaughtered in their beds, just as it will happen on the day you abandon the Kurdish atheists and Sahwah apostates in Sham, so that they meet the same fate as their predecessors in Iraq, by Allah’s permission. Certainly, Allah was truthful to His promise, and you have lied – O America – and you were defeated and proven false the day we gave back to the Ummah meaning that have been absent from it for centuries, the day we revived – by Allah’s grace – rites that have been lost and forgotten by the Muslims. Indeed, many of them had not even heard for them since their eyes set sight on this world. So we announced the Khilafah. Yes, we announced the Khilafah and pledged allegiance to a khalifah for all Muslims, upon whom his obedience is a duty regarding all virtue, as long as he upholds the book of their Lord and the Sunnah of His Prophet , leading them to their honor and glory. The path has become clear by Allah’s grace, and we have not returned to being divided factions, groups, and organizations. Certainly, O America, you know that you have no savior. You have become prey for the soldiers of the Khilafah in every region of the earth. You have become bankrupt and the signs of your end are apparent and visible to the eyes. There is no better evidence of this than that an uncouth idiot has assumed authority over you, while he has no idea what Sham is, what Iraq is, and what Islam is – yet he still raves about showing enmity to it and declaring war against it. There is nothing in front of you except two choices, each more bitter than the other. Either you take a lesson from what has transpired and turn back, leaving the mujahidin with what you leave behind of spoils, or you come down [to the battleground] – which you have done – and plunge into the mire of death, so that the muwahhidin shall become reassured by Allah’s permission. O Ahlus-Sunnah in the Peninsula of Muhammad , mercy to you, do you not hear? Do you not see with your hearts if your eyes have gone blind? Where is your tawhid and iman? Where is your wala and bara? Do you not see the tawaghit of the Peninsula – may Allah disfigure them and end their reign – as they extend the lifesaver to the Rafidah of Iraq? They even give them their blessings to sack the areas of Ahlus-Sunnah there. Is it not time for you to shake off the dust of humiliation and turn against these traitorous murtaddin, who have not left a door for kufr except that they entered it, nor a plan of the Crusaders in warring with the mujahidin except that they supported them, assisted them, and provided for them whatever they can? Is it from the land where wahy was revealed and where the message was first distributed that Ahlus-Sunnah in Iraq and Sham will be killed and humiliated? Is it from the land of the Sahabah and first conquerors that disgrace, tyranny, and contempt will be leveled – where are those of you who have zeal?! Where are the grandsons of as-Siddiq and ‘Umar al-Faruq? Where are the grandsons of Abu Basir and Abu Jandal? O brother of tawhid in the lands of the Two Sanctuaries, take out the soldiers of taghut and the evil scholars who cause fitnah; take out the leaders and ministers; show them your wrath in support of your religion and in defense of your brothers! For certainly, the plight with which they have plagued Ahlus-Sunnah is at its end, and the chaste women of Ahlus-Sunnah have complained of loss and calamity, so let there not stand in your face any obstacle or obstinate fool. O soldiers of the Khilafah in Mosul, Tal’afar, Raqqah, Halab, and every outpost of the Islamic State, know that today we are passing through the greatest stage of the history of our jihad, as well as the most dangerous bend and turning point in the history of the Ummah. So be people who can bear this trust, and you are – by Allah’s permission – the most capable of people to bear that burden. And equip yourselves with suitable provisions, and the best of provision is that of taqwa. And seek aid through Allah and do not weaken. Cling your hearts to the Most Gracious and High, seek His assistance and support, for He  is near, answering the one in need when he calls to Him. He removes evil and is sufficient for His slaves, for who saved Ibrahim al-Khalil from the fire other than Him? Who cleaved the sea for Musa, amended His slave Yunus with His mercy and grace, and supported His slave Muhammad  with terror for the distance of a month? Patience, patience. Steadfastness, steadfastness. Reliance, reliance. “O you who have believed, persevere and endure and remain stationed and fear Allah that you may be successful” (Al ‘Imran 200). And reflect over the word of your Lord and consider it: “And whoever fears Allah – He will make for him a way out and will provide for him from where he does not expect. And whoever relies upon Allah – then He is sufficient for him. Indeed, Allah will accomplish His purpose. Allah has already set for everything a [decreed] extent” (At-Talaq 2-3). O troops of the Khilafah, O defenders of honor and takers of revenge for their religion and ummah! We have not considered you less than men of might, men of courage, leaders in glory, dignified when defending, and perseverant when confronting. So accomplish the promise of your Lord, a promise of support, victory, and consolidation. And adjust yourselves to the utmost effect and harshest of pain. It is only a single time to be killed and to die, then it is the honor that will never end. Beware of abandoning a single hand span of land until you have made it into an inferno for the criminal kuffar. Ambush them in houses, in alleys, and on the roads. Rig bridges with explosives and wage raid after raid. Take them, besiege them, and sit for them at every outpost. O men of the State in Baghdad, in its north and its south, in Karkuk, Salahuddin, Dayala, Fallujah, and Anbar, go further and give the enemies of Allah, of the filthy Rafidah and dirty murtaddin, who have turned from the Sunnah, their fill. Let them taste the cup of bitterness and deadly poison, for you are the people of war, strikers of enemies! And request right guidance from the Master, and put your confidence and reliance upon Him, for the matter is completely in His hands. O soldiers of the Khilafah in Khurasan, Yemen, Sinai, Libya, West Africa, and every place, you have not ceased – by Allah’s grace – to be an excellent support and aid to your State, so increase your campaign against the enemies of Allah, of the criminal kuffar and their apostate subordinates. And know that through your emblazing the war against them, you are defending against the assaults of the nations of kufr against Dar al-Islam in Iraq and Sham, just as your defeating their coalitions and rallied forces. O truthful muwahhidin in America, Russia, and Europe! O supporters of the Khilafah, O you who find marching against the enemy dear to your hearts and today you are in the midst of the mushrikin, roll up your sleeves for this serious matter and be truthful in your effort. And know that our war with our enemy is a comprehensive war with easily achievable benefits. So busy them away from your Khilafah and Dar al- Islam, and remember the saying of your Prophet , “A kafir and his killer will never meet in the Fire” (Reported by Muslim from Abu Hurayrah). O Allah, curse the kuffar, those who avert others from Your cause, who deny Your messengers, and who fight Your allies. O Allah, put discord between their authority, cast enmity and hatred between them, and cause their feet to shake. And rain down upon them Your might, which You do not deter from the criminal people. O Allah, support Your religion and Your soldiers, elevate Your word, and raise Your banner, O God of Truth. And there is no might nor power except with Allah, and all praise belongs to Allah, the Lord of the creation.