The propagators of false calls invent corrupt principles for themselves in order to build their notions and creeds upon them. With the passing of time, they discover for themselves that their notions cannot hold true to these principles, so they reinforce them with newly innovated heresies and deviances. As such, they build on top of what they previously built, reorganizing their notions in order to balance their crooked structure in some way. They continue in this way, regarding their structure, until they reach a stage in which they are unable to reinforce the principles or stabilize the structure – so it collapses on top of them. They lose out on the Dunya after having lost out on the Akhirah. Allah  said, “Then is one who laid the foundation of his building on taqwa from Allah and seeking His approval better or one who laid the foundation of his building on the edge of a bank about to collapse, so it collapsed with him into the fire of Jahannam? And Allah does not guide the wrongdoing people. Their building which they built will not cease to be a [cause of] skepticism in their hearts until their hearts are stopped. And Allah is Knowing and Wise” (At-Tawbah 109-110). Such is the case with most notions invented by those who claim to be Muslims and claim to be striving to establish the Islamic state, but who have based their efforts on corrupt principles, upon which they built their deeds, trends, and erroneous opinions. Their results continue to contradict their principles, so they are left with no choice but to support their crumbling principles with even more falsehood, which only increases them in misguidance and increases their structure in ruin, until eventually nothing of Islam remains therein. As we discuss the methods of establishing the Islamic state, between those who follow the prophetic method and those who follow the paths of deviance, we find ourselves compelled to take a long look at the Twelver Rafidi experiment. This experiment brought them – through their own words and deeds – to fabricate a new religion that has no connection to Islam, except as much as the religions of the Jews and Christians have a connection to the religion of Ibrahim . In studying this experiment, which spread over eleven centuries, we see that it is one of the longest of experiments and the clearest in showing the extent of deviance caused by its being built on a corrupt principle in working to establish the Islamic state. Their deceitful claim of striving to safeguard Islam of heresies and deviations is thus laid bare. The Onset of Their Call… A Fabricated Appointment of Leadership The Rafidi mushrikin claim that the beginning of their call came in the lifetime of the Prophet g through his nass (verbatim appointment) of ‘Ali Ibn Abi Talib  and his descendants after him as khulafa and imams. But they have no evidence of this nass, other than what they have fabricated of false interpretations of texts from the Book and the Sunnah. In fact, the established evidences negate what they claim, like the saying of ‘Umar , “If I were to not appoint a successor, then indeed Allah’s Messenger g did not appoint a successor. And if I were to appoint a successor, then indeed Abu Bakr appointed a successor” (Reported by Muslim). This shows that the Prophet g did not appoint ‘Ali or any of the Sahabah  as his successor. Also, al-Aswad said, “It was mentioned in front of ‘Aishah that ‘Ali  was an heir (to authority), so she said, ‘When did [the Prophet] appoint him? For indeed I was holding him to my chest when he called for a washbowl and then his body drooped and I did not realize that he had died. So when did he appoint him?’” (Reported by al-Bukhari and Muslim). Likewise, the Sahabah had consensus upon giving the bay’ah (pledge of allegiance) to Abu Bakr, ‘Umar, and ‘Uthman  – and included in that consensus was ‘Ali Ibn Abi Talib and his sons, al-Hasan and al-Husayn . There are many other evidences, like these, that destroy this lie of the Rafidah. Something else that invalidates this supposed nass is the dispute among the Rafidah and others who claim to support Ahl al-Bayt, as each of them says the authority should go to someone different, and specifically after ‘Ali  was killed. There are those who said it belonged to the descendants of al-‘Abbas Ibn ‘Abdil-Muttalib. Others said it belonged to al-Hasan Ibn ‘Ali or al-Husayn Ibn ‘Ali or Muhammad Ibn ‘Ali (Ibnul-Hanafiyyah) . And others even claimed it for the sons of Ja’far Ibn Abi Talib . Whenever any of the above would die, those who held these beliefs would fall further into misguidance by following such doubtful matters. If only they actually had a supported nass, the truth of their imam would be established. But too often they found nothing with which to uphold their claim over that of their opponents, other than made up miracles and fallacious phenomena, just as the Rafidah declared the imamah of ‘Ali Ibn al-Husayn (known as as-Sajjad) – while rejecting the imamah of his uncle Muhammad Ibn al-Hanafiyyah – due to the former’s bay’ah supposedly being verbally declared by stones and trees! The Source of Deviance of the Rafidah… Claiming Infallibility for the Imams We are able to summarize the main principle upon which the religion of the Rafidah has stood, and it is that upon which all of their misguidances and deviances are built until this very day. It is their belief that the Islamic state cannot be established without an imam who fulfills their conditions, for which Allah gave no authority. The most important of these conditions is that he be infallible: untouched by any defect whether apparent or hidden, knowledgeable of everything, including the unseen, and verified by the command of Allah c Himself. Thereby, they assert that the people’s religion cannot be established without this imam, and that when people believe completely in their imams, obeying them in all that they command, then their affairs will be set straight and their state will be upon the prophetic methodology. And it is not enough for them that this imam possess these traits, but he must be unique among men, having no peer or equal, and that whoever disputes him in any of that is a taghut, just as whoever gives to his opponent that which should be for the imam has committed shirk with Allah c! The point of reference for this corrupt principle is their belief that the imam must be obeyed and followed just as the Prophet g is obeyed and followed. As such, it is not possible that he be from the “regular” Muslims, those who may be ignorant, err, forget, and have desires. Rather, he must know everything that he wants to know, far above that which befalls men of error, neglect, and emotional inclination, in order that he not be obeyed in committing a sin nor followed upon misguidance. Likewise, he must have no peer to rival him in authority, lest there be fitnah, just as he must have no peer in knowledge, lest his view be opposed and division occurs. Since these stipulated traits are hidden matters, which no one can confirm, they concluded that this imam must be chosen by Allah c, just as He chose the prophets. That is because He alone knows such hidden matters. They even further transgressed in this affair by making this a requirement upon Allah – and He is far exalted above being forced to do anything – because, they say, if He does not choose this imam for them, then He would be oppressing them if He were to punish them, being that He would have no hujjah against them in the absence of the imam who stands in the place of the Messenger. Indeed, far exalted is Allah above what they say! Therefore, they consider anyone they regard as an imam as a “hujjah,” i.e. the hujjah against people is established through him, and that whoever disobeys him deserves to be punished by Allah c. This alleged choice of Allah comes from the same nass that they fabricated concerning the imamah of ‘Ali  and his descendants after him. The Tawhid of Obedience Negates the Notion of Infallibility Their corrupt principle of demanding infallibility for their imams comes from their misguidance in the issue of obeying the imam. For Allah  made obedience to the imams and the umara dependent upon obedience to Allah and His Messenger – and not equal thereto. So whenever the amir’s command is virtuous, then obeying him is in obedience to Allah c, and whenever obeying the amir conflicts with obeying Allah, then it is an obligation to disobey the amir and only obey Allah c. Allah  made obedience to those believers in authority an obligation. However, in the case of disputation, He commanded that the matter be referred back to Allah and His Messenger, i.e. to the Book and the Sunnah, thus confirming that obeying those in authority is actually obedience to Allah. He said, “O you who believe, obey Allah and obey the Messenger and those in authority among you. And if you disagree over anything, refer it to Allah and the Messenger, if you should believe in Allah and the Last Day. That is the best way and best in interpretation” (An-Nisa 59). And the Prophet g said, “Whoever obeys me has indeed obeyed Allah, and whoever disobeys me has indeed disobeyed Allah. And whoever obeys my amir has indeed obeyed me, and whoever disobeys my amir has indeed disobeyed me” (Reported by al- Bukhari and Muslim from Abu Hurayrah). It is not reasonable to conclude that obeying the amir whom the Prophet g ordered to be obeyed should be obeyed in what contradicts his own commands. Likewise, the imam to whom obedience is due is not required to be infallible. He g also said, “There is no obedience in sinful matters. Obedience is only in what is virtuous” (Reported by al-Bukhari and Muslim from ‘Ali Ibn Abi Talib). Therefore, there is no benefit to the infallibility of the imam as long as obedience to this imam and following him is restricted to the obedience of Allah  and following His Messenger g. This is the methodology of Ahlus-Sunnah wal-Jama’ah, to which they have not ceased to adhere since the time of the Messenger g and until Allah inherits the earth and all those upon it, that it is obligatory to obey those in authority over the Muslims’ affairs, regarding what is virtuous, as long as they remain upon Islam, and that any tyranny they might commit does not restrict their right of being obeyed in matters that do not entail sinfulness towards Allah. Supporting the Corrupt Principle with Heresies and New Misguidance Due to their corrupt principle that the earth could not be left without an infallible person to take the place of his predecessors, and their claim that this infallible person must have been appointed during the life of the previous imam, and even their stipulation that this imam’s own children must be infallible as well, the Rafidah stumbled over several obstacles. Some of them were forced to recant this corrupt principle, while others merely plunged into an even greater deviance in order to maintain this principle, which remains a pillar for their entire religion and not just for the matter of imamah alone. We can mention a few examples of this. They claimed that during the life of Ja’far Ibn Muhammad Ibn ‘Ali Ibn al-Husayn Ibn ‘Ali Ibn Abi Talib, the appointed heir was his son Isma’il. But when Isma’il died while his father was still alive, they were befallen with a contradiction between the obligation of fulfilling the nass and the death of the appointed heir. The deception and lie of this notion was thus revealed and known to some people, as it is nonsensical that Allah c would appoint a man to be the imam, yet then cause him to die before he actually becomes the imam. But others held tightly to this corrupt principle to only build thereon further corruptions. So some people continued believing in the imamah of Isma’il Ibn Ja’far, denying that he had died or claiming that he had returned to life after his death, thus declaring that their imam Ja’far – whom they refer to as as-Sadiq (the truthful) – was a liar when he told them that his son had died. Rather, they claim that he made up the story of his son’s death due to taqiyyah (concealing the truth out of fear), in order to protect him from his enemies, and that he was really just in hiding. From these heretics came the esoteric Isma’ili sect, which continues today and whose followers claim to have kept the imamah intact within the lineage of Isma’il Ibn Ja’far. And from them came the heresy of believing in the ghaybah (prolonged absence), perpetual life in the Dunya, and the reincarnation of their imams. Others came out to fabricate lies against Allah c, claiming that Allah “changes His mind” about whom He appoints. They called this fabrication “bada” (occurrence of an idea), meaning that it just happened to occur to Allah to transfer the imamah from one person to another. May Allah curse them! These ones, known as the Musawiyyah, thereby transferred the appointment from Isma’il Ibn Ja’far (the deceased) to his brother Musa Ibn Ja’far (whom they call al-Kadhim) in order to save their notion from extinction and their principle from invalidation. Affirming the Notion with Lies When Ja’far Ibn Muhammad  died, the extreme Rafidah fell into a new embarrassment, as there was no nass from the imam to his successor. So they declared the imamah of his eldest son ‘Abdullah Ibn Ja’far (whom they call al-Aftah). But then some of them rejected his imamah once they found him in opposition to their beliefs, thus accusing him of immorality as they joined the others who accepted the imamah of his brother Musa Ibn Ja’far. As for those who continued to support the imamah of ‘Abdullah Ibn Ja’far, then it became an apparent failure once he died without leaving any descendants. So he had no son whom they could have supported as the imam after him. Some of them then recanted this foolish belief, while others only increased in their misguidance, upholding a lie against their imam by claiming that he had a son, whom they alleged was hidden from view – just like the Isma’iliyyah said about Isma’il Ibn Ja’far – so the creed of ghaybah took root. And these were even further in their deviance, for they had given their bay’ah to a hidden imam who was never even born! They began inventing nonexistent imams. Regarding those who accepted the imamah of Musa (al-Kadhim) Ibn Ja’far, they also faced a new embarrassment, as their imam died in prison without appointing an heir to succeed him. So they went forth, in preservation of their corrupt principle and invalid notions, to fabricate new lies. Some of them denied his death and kept believing that he was alive and still the imam, and that he was merely in hiding. These came to be known as the Waqifiyyah sect. As for those who were forced to confirm his death, they declared the imamah for his son ‘Ali Ibn Musa (whom they call ar-Rida). For this reason, the Waqifiyyah manifested their enmity to ‘Ali Ibn Musa and accused him of lying when he announced the news that his father had died. Their Imams Negate the Principle of Their Notions Those who believed in his imamah put themselves into great contradiction with their corrupt principles. That is because he had pledged his bay’ah to al-Mamun Ibn Harun ar-Rashid, accepting him as the rightful authority over him. This provided new evidence against the falsehood of the notions of inherited authority, the nass, infallibility, and so forth, as it makes no sense that an infallible, appointed imam would give bay’ah to one who – imperfect in both religion and knowledge – has usurped authority. Either those who claim the imam’s infallibility would follow him in what he himself has done, thereby negating the very principle of the nass of imamah, or they would oppose him. In that case, they would be in rebellion against him, thus destroying their entire religion from its very foundation, finding fault with their “faultless” imam and recanting his inherited imamah and his appointment. All that remained for them was to believe in bada or taqiyyah, as is their way whenever they fabricate something. Permitting the Imamah of Children and the Nonexistent It was not long before a new calamity struck them, for at the death of ‘Ali Ibn Musa, the Rafidah were forced to implement their notion of the imamah of children, like Muhammad Ibn ‘Ali Ibn Musa (whom they call al-Jawad). For when ‘Ali Ibn Musa died in Khurasan, his son Muhammad was only seven years old. A group of the Rafidah abandoned him and gave their bay’ah to his uncle Ahmad Ibn Musa, and others negated the imamah of ar-Rida, as he did not leave an imam to succeed him and so there was no imam to wash his body after he died. Another group pledged allegiance to Muhammad Ibn al-Qasim Ibn ‘Umar Ibn ‘Ali Ibn al-Husayn. And another did indeed give bay’ah to al-Jawad, claiming for him knowledge of the unseen as evidence for his imamah. They even fabricated a myth of his traveling from Madinah to Khurasan in order to wash his father’s body and then to return only moments later, and other such fantastic tales of alleged miracles. The matter repeated itself when Muhammad (al-Jawad) died at the age of twenty-five, leaving two young sons, ‘Ali (al-Hadi) and Musa, designating an heir to manage their wealth until they come of age. This led the Rafidah to think about how a child could be appointed over the affairs of the Ummah while his “infallible” father could not even secure his personal wealth for him. A group of these Rafidah then went out against ‘Ali (al-Hadi) Ibn Muhammad (al-Jawad) when his son Muhammad, whom he appointed to be his heir after him, died, so he appointed his other son al-Hasan (al-‘Askari) to succeed him. Another group continued to support the imamah of Muhamamd Ibn ‘Ali (al-Hadi), denying his death and upholding their creed of the inherited imamah, while others pledged their bay’ah to al-Hasan (al-‘Askari) on the foundation of bada. Then came their fatal blow at the death of al-Hasan (al-‘Askari) Ibn ‘Ali (al-Hadi), who had no sons. There was no choice for the extremists of them except to do as their brethren the Aftahiyyah had done, so they ascribed to al-Hasan a son who was never born. They named him Muhammad (and called him al-Mahdi), in order that the Twelver Rafidah could complete – through him – their twelve-fold imamah. They then claimed that he, as an infant, went into ghaybah in a cavern of Samarra for fear of his enemies, and that he will reappear when there is no more danger. This alleged absence has continued for around 1,200 years and the Rafidah still wait for the emergence of this invented imam to establish the Islamic state upon the foundation of their corrupt principle: the infallible imamah. A Religion Fabricated on a Corrupt Principle During the progression of events of these deviants, and after their exit from the Jama’ah of the Muslims, they divided into dozens of sects. Each of them curses and makes takfir of the others. We find that they have made up their corrupt principle and invalid notions in order to justify their rejection of the true khulafa of the Muslims and the umara of the believers, from the time of Abu Bakr as-Siddiq until the establishment of the hour, since no one is able to fulfill the conditions they’ve stipulated, of infallibility, appointment through nass, and the making of “miracles,” except in the form of lies that they’ve invented. Still, they will not accept an imam unless he gives in to their desires. This is why we see – time and again – that they have gone out against those whom they declared to be imams, due to their opposition to their rulings or due to their own inability to adhere to their principles. We have found that those whom they claim to even uphold part of these notions have nullified them multiple times in their lives, contradicting them in word and deed. Likewise, they were compelled – time and again – to keep adding to their religion, fabricating new principles to straighten out their faltering structure. So they added the creed of inherited authority, of nass, of bada, and so on. They even went back to the Book and the Sunnah and altered them, denying anything in them that goes against their principles! They were forced to declare fantasies as truths and to justify them no matter how stupid they were, like the beliefs of the ghaybah for hundreds of years, returning after the ghaybah, the concoction of nonexistent sons, the imamah of children, and so forth. We will find in the next part of this series, by Allah’s permission, how the Rafidah fabricated most of their religion during the period of ghaybah that came after the death of al-Hasan (al-‘Askari), when they claimed that his invented son Muhammad (al-Mahdi) went into hiding. And we will see how they added to their religion and took away from it during these long centuries, up until the establishment of their taghut state in Iran today, as they work towards supporting it to include the whole world in order to pave the way for the return of their “Mahdi,” whom they say will emerge after his enemies are no more.