As the soldiers of the Khilafah continue waging war on the forces of kufr, we take a glimpse at a number of recent operations conducted by the mujahidin of the Islamic State that have succeeded in expanding the territory of the Khilafah, or terrorizing, massacring, and humiliating the enemies of Allah. These operations are merely a selection of the numerous operations that the Islamic State has conducted on various fronts across many regions over the course of the last few weeks. South Baghdad Wilayah On the 2nd of Rajab, the istishhadi Abu ‘Azzam al-‘Iraqi  set out with a truck carrying several tons of explosives towards a gathering of the Rafidi mushrikin that included joint military and security forces at the southern entrance to Baghdad in the district of Rashid. He detonated his vehicle on them, killing and injuring at least 100 murtaddin and destroying dozens of vehicles. On the 7th of Rajab, the istishhadi Abu Dharr al-‘Iraqi  entered into a memorial service held by the Rafidi Mobilization in the area of Iskandariyyah in Babil and detonated his explosive vest, killing and injuring dozens of them. Raqqah Wilayah On the 4th of Rajab, several inghimasiyyin set out towards PKK positions in the eastern and western countryside of the wilayah. The first detachment attacked their positions in three villages in the eastern countryside and succeeded in killing more than 35 murtaddin. Another group, meanwhile, attacked the murtaddin’s positions near the Tabaqah airbase and succeeded in killing 30 murtaddin, in addition to destroying a bulldozer and four military vehicles, and taking a 4-wheel drive vehicle mounted with a machine gun as ghanimah. On the 7th of Rajab, the soldiers of the Khilafah killed more than 40 PKK murtaddin in three istishhadi attacks employing two explosive vehicles and an explosive motorbike in Jazarat Bu Humayd towards the east of the wilayah. East Asia On the 4th of Rajab, the soldiers of the Khilafah targeted a military vehicle belonging to the Filipino Crusader army with an explosive device in the area of Mamasapano south of the city of Cotabato, killing 6 of their soldiers and injuring a number of others. Salahuddin Wilayah On the 8th of Rajab, 7 inghimasiyyin pledged to fight to the death and then succeeded in breaching the murtaddin’s security measures and reaching the middle of Takrit. They clashed with an emergency forces regiment base in the city, killing those inside and burning two military vehicles. They then headed to the home of the murtadd counterterrorism director, Khalid Muhammad Kassar al-Jamili, and killed both him and his son. They then entrenched themselves inside the murtaddin’s buildings and clashed with them until their supply of ammo was exhausted, following which they detonated their explosive vests on them. The blessed operation resulted in more than 31 murtaddin being killed, among them 6 officers, and more than 40 others being wounded. On the 9th of Rajab, the soldiers of the Khilafah carried out an attack on Rafidi army and Rafidi militia positions on two axes north of the city of Bayji. The first axis was on the Asmidah and Makhazin bridges and the neighboring villages, where clashes took place for a long period of time and were accompanied by istishhadi operations carried out with explosive vehicles that targeted the gatherings of the murtaddin, leading to 16 vehicles and two Abrams tanks being destroyed, more than 30 murtaddin being killed, a number of others being wounded, 30 barracks being destroyed, a helicopter being hit, a reconnaissance plane being shot down, and three vehicles as well as a variety of weapons and ammo being taken as ghanimah. The second axis was on the road between Bayji and Hadithah, where an attack was carried out and was accompanied by two istishhadi operations with two explosive vehicles targeting the gatherings of the murtaddin. The attack and two istishhadi operations resulted in more than 15 murtaddin being killed and wounded, 17 barracks and a number of vehicles being destroyed, and several others being disabled. Russia The soldiers of the Khilafah killed two Russian policemen and wounded three members of the Russian National Guard in two attacks in the city of Astrakhan, one on the 7th of Rajab and the other two days later on the 9th of Rajab. On the 24th of Rajab, a number of Islamic State soldiers attacked an office of the Russian Federal Security Service (FSB) in the city of Khabarovsk in Far Eastern Russia and succeeded in killing three of their personnel and in injuring a number of others. Misr On the 12th of Rajab, Abul-Bara al-Misri  set out towards the gatherings of the Crusaders in St. Mark’s Cathedral in the city of Alexandria and detonated his explosive vest, killing and injuring dozens of them. Meanwhile, the istishhadi Abu Ishaq al-Misri  detonated his explosive vest on another gathering in St. George’s Church in Tanta, killing and injuring several of them. The two blessed operations resulted in more than 50 Crusaders being killed and 140 others being wounded. Khurasan Wilayah On the 11th of Rajab, 10 inghimasi soldiers of the Khilafah set out towards a joint American Crusader army and murtadd Afghan army convoy advancing in the area of Shadal in Nangarhar. Fierce confrontations took place in which a number of Crusaders were killed along with at least 15 murtaddin. Three of the inghimasiyyin attained shahadah , and the remaining 7 returned safely back to their positions. Dijlah Wilayah On the 19th of Rajab, 8 soldiers of the Khilafah carried out an inghimasi attack on Peshmerga barracks in the village of Kahf west of Makhmur. Clashes took place, leading to a regiment commander and 17 other murtaddin being killed, among them three officers of varying ranks. Two of the mujahidin attained shahadah , and the rest returned safely back to their positions. Ninawa Wilayah On the 19th of Rajab, the soldiers of the Khilafah engaged in fierce confrontations with the Rafidi Federal Police on the outskirts of the area of Ras al-Jaddah in western Mosul. They succeeded in killing 9 of them and in injuring 10 others, in addition to disabling two Humvees and a bulldozer. Meanwhile, the istishhadi Abuz-Zubayr al-‘Iraqi  detonated his explosive vehicle on a gathering of the Rafidi SWAT militia on the edges of the neighborhood of Tanak towards the west of Mosul. He destroyed an Abrams tank and an armored bulldozer, and also killed and wounded several murtaddin. The soldiers of the Khilafah also engaged in clashes with the Rafidi Federal Police on the outskirts of the area of Mashahidah in western Mosul. They killed 10 of their personnel, two of whom were officers, disabled an armored vehicle, and shot down a reconnaissance plane. Meanwhile, artillery support units bombarded a gathering of the Rafidi SWAT militia in the neighborhood of Abar towards the west of Mosul. They landed direct hits, killing more than 35 of them and injuring a number of others. Likewise, sniper units killed 12 Rafidi soldiers and militia fighters on the outskirts of the areas of Bab at-Tub and Ras al-Jaddah, and on the edges of Corniche Street, and in the village of Rayhaniyyat ‘Ulya west of Mosul. France On the 23rd of Rajab, Abu Yusuf al-Baljiki  set out with a Kalashnikov assault rifle and attacked a group of Crusader policemen on the Avenue des Champs-Elysees in the middle of Paris, killing one of them and injuring two others.