As the Crusaders continue to wage their vicious campaign on the lands of Islam in the wilayat of Iraq, Sham, Khurasan, Sinai and elsewhere, they are constantly reminded of the painful reality that this honorable ummah has men – heroes who gallantly demonstrate with their operations against them that their howitzers, Tomahawks, white phosphorus bombs, and MOABs, which they rain over the heads of the Muslims and their homes, will be met with blades that plunge into their bodies, vehicles that unexpectedly mount their busy sidewalks, smashing into crowds, crushing bones, and severing limbs, and bullets that pierce their filthy bodies while they are in the midst of their foul enjoyment. The likes of Khalid Masood in the UK, Man Haron Monis, Numan Haider, and Farhad Khalil Mohammad Jabar in Australia, Michael Zehaf-Bibeau, and Martin Couture-Rouleau in Canada, Zale Thompson, ‘Abdur-Razzaq ‘Ali Artan, Elton Simpson, Nadir Soofi, Faisal Mohammad, Syed Rizwan Farook, and his wife Tashfeen Malik in the US, Bertrand Nzohabonayo, Larossi Abdalla, Mohamed Lahouaiej-Bouhlel, Abu Jarir al-Hanafi, and Ibn ‘Umar (Adel Kermiche and ‘Abdul Malik Petitjean) in France, Muhammad Riyad, Muhammad Daleel, and Abul-Bara at-Tunisi (Anis al-‘Amri) in Germany, Abu Ramadan al-Muhajir (Omar Abdel Hamid el-Hussein) in Denmark, and others  have set heroic examples with their operations. With their blood they incited, instructed, and demonstrated practically for other Muslims how one can attain Allah’s pleasure and escape His  wrath while stationed in the garrisons of the open war arena against the Crusader West. Hostage-Taking The objective of hostage-taking in the lands of disbelief – and specifically in relation to just terror operations – is not to hold large numbers of the kuffar hostage in order to negotiate one’s demands. Rather, the objective is to create as much carnage and terror as one possibly can until Allah decrees his appointed time and the enemies of Allah storm his location or succeed in killing him. This is because the hostile kafir only understands one language and that is the language of force, the language of killing, stabbing and slitting throats, chopping off heads, flattening them under trucks, and burning them alive, ‘until they give the jizyah while they are in a state of humiliation’ (At-Tawbah 29). This sunnah of inflicting a slaughter upon the kuffar was ordered by Allah  when He said, “So when you meet those who disbelieve, strike [their] necks until, when you have inflicted slaughter upon them, then secure their bonds, and either [confer] favor afterwards or ransom [them] until the war lays down its burdens” (Muhammad 4), and likewise in His c statement, “It is not for a prophet to have captives until he inflicts a massacre in the land. You (i.e. the Muslims) desire the commodities of this world, but Allah desires [for you] the Hereafter. And Allah is Exalted in Might and Wise” (Al-Anfal 67). Armed with a Firearm The scenario for such an attack is that one assaults a busy, public, and enclosed location and rounds up the kuffar who are present. Having gained control over the victims, one should then proceed to slaughter as many of them as he possibly can before the initial police response, as was outstandingly demonstrated by the mujahidin  who carried out the Bataclan theatre massacre during the course of the blessed Paris raid in which the three soldiers of the Khilafah, armed with assault rifles and hand grenades, stormed the theater, taking up positions and firing at the Crusader citizens present. After having killed and injured many of them, those remaining of the kuffar were taken hostage so as to slow any efforts of the responding kafir armed forces from storming the theater. The raid was immensely successful, resulting in the harvest of 89 dead Crusader citizens and over 200 wounded. Similarly, Omar Mateen  superbly demonstrated this scenario when, having armed himself with an assault rifle and a handgun, he single-handedly slaughtered 49 sodomites – by Allah’s permission – and wounded 44 others, taking advantage of the slow initial police response and utilizing that window of opportunity to massacre as many of them as he possibly could. The Acquisition of Firearms The acquisition of firearms can be very simple depending on one’s geographical location. For example: The USA: In most US states, anything from a single-shot shotgun all the way up to a semi-automatic AR-15 rifle can be purchased at showrooms or through online sales – by way of private dealers – with no background checks, and without requiring either an ID or a gun license. And with approximately 5,000 gun shows taking place annually within the United States, the acquisition of firearms becomes a very easy matter. Europe: Due to its proximity to many conflict zones, such as Ukraine, Russia, Turkey, and Sham, and due to its inability to control its porous borders, firearms are widely available in Europe, facilitating their acquisition by means of gun dealers and underground criminal networks – for those capable of attaining those connections – which are widespread and rampant throughout Europe. This was clearly demonstrated by the brother Abu Basir al-Ifriqi (Amedy Coulibaly) , who succeeded in acquiring a small arsenal of weapons consisting of handguns, AK-47 assault rifles, explosives, and a cache of ammunition. The UK: Much like its Crusader European counterparts, the UK faces a gun control dilemma as it feebly attempts to fend off the influx of weapons, but to no avail. Guns are readily available for purchase on the streets of Britain, even if not to the extent of their availability on the streets of its Crusader European partners. If one does not possess any direct or informal contact with any gun dealers, he should abstain from randomly asking people whom they consider “trustworthy” for help in acquiring them, as in many cases this can lead to one falling into the trap of police sting operations or, at the very least, bringing upon oneself unnecessary suspicion. Other methods of obtaining firearms in the West include raiding one of the hundreds or maybe thousands of hunting and tactical military stores by ramming one’s vehicle through the shop’s door when it’s closed and then entering the shop and seizing as many weapons as one can take. Alternatively, after some simple reconnaissance, one could follow the shop owner after he’s closed for the day, ambush him or run him over with a vehicle, and then take his keys in order to gain access to the store’s arsenal and any other location where he might be storing firearms and ammunition. Such targets, though potentially offering a considerable gain in terms of ghanimah, are ambitious in nature and should be pursued while keeping in mind that tactical and gun shop owners are normally the type who arm and train themselves and would not be as averse to engaging in a firefight when attacked. They can, nevertheless, be taken by surprise if one takes the means available to him and plans his attack carefully. The mujahidin in Qawqaz Wilayah demonstrated that such attacks – those carried out against a well-armed and comparatively difficult target – should in no way be underestimated, as eight soldiers of the Khilafah  attacked a Russian National Guard military base near the village of Naurskaya towards the northwest of the city of Grozny in Chechnya armed with nothing but knives. They attacked the soldiers in the base and seized their weapons. If that was what those lions were able to accomplish against a trained military force how much easier would it be if applied on a faint-hearted kafir shop owner in the West?! And this method is applicable in most western countries such as the US, Europe, the UK, Canada, Australia, and anywhere else the Crusaders and mushrikin can be found. Ideal Target Locations Ideal target locations for hostage-taking scenarios include night clubs, movie theaters, busy shopping malls and large stores, popular restaurants, concert halls, university campuses, public swimming pools, indoor ice skating rinks, and generally any busy enclosed area, as such an environment allows for one to take control of the situation by rounding up the kuffar present inside and allows one to massacre them while using the building as a natural defense against any responding force attempting to enter and bring the operation to a quick halt. Similarly, characteristics of a good target location include low light conditions, as it grants one the ability to maneuver between the people, taking advantage of the confusion and killing as many of the kuffar as physically possible. The number of people carrying out the operation would also influence the ideal target location. If one is alone in his operation then ideally a location that has a minimal number of exit points would be more appropriate as it would allow him to better control his victims and more easily defend against any intruding forces. If those carrying out the operation are larger in number, they have more flexibility in their choice of target location as they would be able to cover a venue containing multiple exit points – with each mujahid securing a point. Execution The operation should be initiated at times when the target location is at its busiest. Likewise, one can exploit days on which police and other security forces might be pre occupied with national or local events, thereby crippling and slowing their ability to swiftly respond. It is also essential for one to know that the aim is to kill as many kuffar as one possibly can, and as quickly as one can before the initial police response. After killing those present one should keep a few of his victims alive as hostages to be used as human shields against the anticipated response of the kafir armed forces. Without Firearms The absence of firearms or the lack of one’s ability to acquire them does not exclude one from attaining the immense reward of partaking in the worship of slaughtering the enemies of Allah  and inflicting upon them a massacre. Rather, it only further opens the doors for a bit of creativity and some basic planning. War Is Deception The Messenger of Allah g said, “War is deception” (Reported by al-Bukhari and Muslim). This concept was demonstrated practically by some of the expeditions commissioned by the Messenger of Allah g. One such example was reported by al-Bukhari and Muslim from Jabir Ibn ‘Abdillah concerning the raid which the Prophet g authorized and which was carried out by a small number of the Companions . It was led by Muhammad Ibn Maslamah  and they succeeded in killing the Jewish taghut, Ka’b Ibn al- Ashraf, after building his confidence and giving him the impression that he was not at threat. They visited him at night calling him from outside his home, and Ka’b’s wife reacted by saying to him, “I hear a voice, as if it were a voice of blood” or “dripping with blood.” He responded by saying, “It is my brother Muhammad Ibn Maslamah, and my brother through breast-feeding, Abu Nailah. Indeed, if the honorable one is called, he responds even if it causes him risk.” Muhammad Ibn Maslamah had already prearranged a signal, telling his companions that if they see him grabbing Ka’b’s head they should strike him. Ka’b came out to them, and after tricking him into believing that he only wanted to smell the fragrance on his hair, Muhammad Ibn Maslamah grabbed his head and called out to his companions, so they began stabbing him until they killed him. Other such examples include the raid of ‘Abdullah Ibn ‘Atiq  who assassinated the enemy of Allah, Abu Rafi’. The hadith is mentioned by al Bukhari r from al-Bara Ibn ‘Azib. Thus, using deception as a tactic of warfare in order to lure one’s target or trick them into believing that they are safe before killing them or inconspicuously assassinating them is divinely approved, as the Sunnah clearly demonstrates. It is likewise one of the most appropriate methods to apply for the one seeking to slaughter large numbers of the kuffar while armed with something as simple and easily attainable as a knife. Luring Targets Those residing in the lands of disbelief will surely note the ease and simplicity in achieving the confidence and trust of a disbeliever. Portraying oneself to them as harmless gives them the impression that they are secure and free from danger. This deceptive approach of luring the kafir is something that can be easily accomplished through various methods, some of which will be detailed. Advertising a Job: Advertising a fake job by way of posting one’s ad at a local unemployment center will undoubtedly attract a response, and one may then filter out one’s sought after target (i.e. any male kafir) by advertising a job that is likely to attract that type of person. As an example, one might advertise a job vacancy that Muslims would not seek, or that may only appeal to men. After garnering a significant amount of applicants, one can then arrange the “job interview” location and times, spacing out the applicants’ appointment times so as to give oneself time to subdue each target as he arrives – luring him to an appropriate location before attacking, subduing, binding, and then slaughtering them. Advertising Property for Rent: One can falsely advertise a property for rent by means of local newspaper classified sections, or by means of online sites for classified advertising, or by simply writing or printing out “For Rent” advertisement posters which can be stuck on walls, lampposts, or in local store windows within the vicinity of the property in question, leaving a contact number that one can be reached on. In order for the advertisement not to attract large families – thus making it difficult to initiate an attack, especially if one is alone in his operation – the advertisement should be for a small single room or studio apartment. This will help ensure that the viewer comes alone. It might even help to include in the ad that the apartment is “ideal for students.” Second-Hand Buy and Sell Groups: Online sales by way of buy and sell websites such as Craigslist, Gumtree, eBay, the Loot, and others are an alternative means to luring one’s victims. In many cases, the collection of the product must be done in person – when the buyer and seller reside in the same country – especially when the product being advertised for sale is high in value or large in size. The advertisement should specify that collection and payment is only available in person and that only cash is accepted. Also, the item being advertised should be something that requires the victim to enter one’s property. For example, a car wouldn’t require the target to enter the seller’s property as the vehicle would be expected to have been parked in the driveway or in front of the property. It is likewise important to be realistic when advertising and not advertise something far below its valued price, as this can attract the attention of authorities searching for stolen goods or possibly attract other suspicions. The viewing and collecting of the item should be arranged to be at the location where one seeks to carry out his operation. Upon the target’s arrival, one can then proceed to initiate his attack. Execution In order to ensure the success of the operation there are a few important points to remember and some prior measures to be taken: • The remembrance of Allah, and constantly reminding oneself that this action is worship, and that Allah has obliged us to “kill the mushrikin” wherever we find them, and to “fight the disbelievers who are closest” to us. • Having a location in which to execute an operation is a necessary requirement and every site where one is intending to initiate his massacre should have the appearance of the location which was used as a method by which to lure them. In practical terms, this means that if the method used to lure them was a false advertisement for a house or apartment for rent then the location should be a house or an apartment, and if the method used to lure them was a job application then the location should resemble, in some way, a place that relates to work, such as an office, even if that requires renting the premises. • Having a room specifically reserved for the disposal of the bodies of the targets is also important for the obvious reason of not alerting those intended victims entering the property after them. • One must space out the arrival times of one’s victims, thus granting him the ability to initiate his attack while they are alone. • One should not initiate his attack until the target has fully entered the property and is comfortable, so as to avoid any struggle and prevent the chance of him fleeing. • It is essential to have a suitable weapon for one’s operation, i.e. a strong, sharp knife,1 and possibly a bat or a small club that one may use to subdue the victim by striking them over the head before slaughtering them. • One should have present with him at the location some easy means of restraining the targets, such as handcuffs, which are widely available for sale to the general public. A more discrete alternative is to purchase what are known as plastic cable ties (“zip ties”), which are also commonly used as restraints. • One should ensure that if there are any screams from his victim, they do not result in the operation being compromised. This can be resolved by simply having a background noise that drowns out any other sounds, such as raising the volume of the television, radio, etc. Additionally, carrying out this type of operation in the daytime hours will also help in this regard as it allows one to exploit the noise pollution that comes with the movement of people during those hours to drown out any sounds that may be heard as a consequence of one’s attack. The focus of the discussion thus far has been on gaining control over multiple kuffar – either by storming an enclosed public site or luring them to an enclosed private location, thereby making it extremely difficult for them to flee – and then dispatching them either in an immediate or near-immediate timeframe. However, in order for the operation to gain wide publicity and more effectively plant terror into the hearts of the disbelievers, one can keep some of his victims alive and restrained, making for a more lengthy and drawn-out hostage scenario. One may then notify the authorities, explaining to them that he is a soldier of the Islamic State and informing them of what he has just done. This will of course result in his location being surrounded, and eventually stormed, by armed forces. In such a scenario, he can delay their entry by using the surviving hostages as human shields – only keeping alive those necessary for this purpose. The intention of this delay is therefore only to prolong the terror, as the ideal scenario is that they storm the location and he is killed as a shahid – inshaallah – after having inflicted upon the kuffar a just massacre.