This month, Rumiyah had the opportunity to interview the amir of the soldiers of the Khilafah in Misr [commonly known as Egypt] and put forth a number of questions to him concerning the efforts of the mujahidin in the region to wage war against the belligerent Christians and their taghut allies who strive to protect them. Question: Tell us about the condition of the soldiers of the Khilafah in Misr and about the nature of their operations. Answer: All praise is due to Allah, the Lord of the creation. May blessings and peace be upon him who was sent with the sword as a mercy to the creation. The final outcome shall be for the righteous, and there is no transgression except against the oppressors. As for what follows: Indeed, the soldiers of the Khilafah in Misr enjoy good and tremendous favor from Allah  – and all praise is due to Allah – for they have increased and continuing strength. And despite the war being waged against them, their operations are leaving their desired effect and are achieving their designated goals and more, and to Allah alone belongs praise and thanks. Question: What are the obstacles being faced by the mujahidin in Misr? Answer: Indeed, the most important thing the mujahidin face in Misr is the absence of the reality of tawhid from a large section of the population, especially when it comes to legislating and ruling by other than what Allah c revealed, showing allegiance to those who commit this type of shirk, and showing enmity to the believers who fight so that rule is entirely for Allah, the Owner of the Dominion. Allah c said, “Unquestionably, His is the creation and the command; blessed is Allah, Lord of the creation” (Al-A’raf 54). He c also said, “Rule is not but for Allah. He has commanded that you worship not except Him” (Yusuf 40). So the condition of these people with the tawaghit is the like condition of the people of Fir’awn, concerning whom Allah c said, “So he bluffed his people, and they obeyed him. Indeed, they were [themselves] a people defiantly disobedient [of Allah]” (Az-Zukhruf 54). The tawaghit have taken them away from the true religion, at times through the means of the scholars of misguidance, and at times through the means of their corrupt media, which had them showing allegiance to the tawaghit and showing enmity to the mujahidin under the pretext of countering terrorism. And this is an apparent act of apostasy from the religion of Islam, so it is upon them to hasten to repent from it, and thereafter it is upon them to not expose the mujahidin’s secrets, and to cover them. Rather, they should even support them and give them refuge, and set out with them to fight these tawaghit, thus waging a jihad that is obligatory upon them. Question: Tell us about your relationship with Sinai Wilayah. Answer: What connects us with our brothers, the soldiers of the Khilafah in Sinai Wilayah, is a relationship of brotherliness, love, and allegiance – may Allah bless them. We are all soldiers of the Islamic State in the land of Sinai and Misr, fighting so that the word of Allah becomes supreme. And in Misr we have a path to Baytul-Maqdis which passes through Sinai, soon, by the permission of Allah c, even if the disbelievers dislike that. Question: What is the goal you wish to achieve by targeting the churches? Answer: Targeting these churches is part of our fight and our war against kufr and its people, and that is in response to the command of Allah c, “Fight those who do not believe in Allah or in the Last Day and who do not consider unlawful what Allah and His Messenger have made unlawful and who do not adopt the religion of truth from those who were given the Scripture – [fight] until they give the jizyah willingly while they are humbled” (At-Tawbah 29). And if these belligerent Christians think that their fortresses will shield them from the soldiers of the Islamic State, then they should know that the mujahidin have swords that have been unsheathed – by Allah’s permission – to strike their necks and the necks of those who ally with them, and these swords will not miss their targets and will not be stopped from reaching them, with Allah’s permission. And there is no ability or strength for us except with Allah. Question: What kind of reaction do you see towards your operations, whether from the general masses, the tawaghit, the “security” forces, and the scholars of evil? Answer: The prevailing trend in many people’s reactions is that of denunciation, as well as disassociation from these operations in specific, and from the war on the Christians and the tawaghit in general, and of offering condolences to these mushrikin on account of what befalls them, under the claim of national brotherhood and the likes, despite that being a show of allegiance to the kuffar and mushrikin, which takes one out of the religion. Whoever does any of that becomes an apostate from the religion of Islam, and his deeds are nullified as long as he does not hasten to repent and show regret before there comes from Allah a day (i.e. the Day of Judgment) which cannot be repelled. As for the reactions of the apostates from among the army and the police, they, as is their habit, practice cruelty and transgression, by way of killing, detainment, and abuse after every operation, in order to appease their leaders in the government as well as their Crusader masters. And this makes some people even more fed up and increases their hatred for the Christians and the apostates, and all praise is due to Allah. And despite the fact that this cruelty has a positive outcome for the mujahidin and a negative outcome for the tawaghit and the Christians, they can’t abstain from practicing it. And from Allah’s grace upon us is that He safeguarded our brothers after these operations and the cruelty and abuse that followed, so no harm came to them, and all praise is due to Allah. “And Allah repelled those who disbelieved, in their rage, not having obtained any good” (Al-Ahzab 25). As for the shuyukh and scholars of the tawaghit and the callers to the gates of Jahannam – with their varying schools of thought, organizations, and parties – what is applicable to them is the statement of Allah c, “So his example is like that of the dog: if you chase it, it pants, and if you leave it, it [still] pants” (Al-A’raf 176). We say to them what Allah c has said to those who have preceded them upon this path of theirs: “Indeed, they who conceal what Allah has sent down of the Book and exchange it for a small price – those consume not into their bellies except the Fire. And Allah will not speak to them on the Day of Resurrection, nor will He purify them. And they will have a painful punishment” (Al-Baqarah 174). Question: Concerning those Muslims in Misr who have not been able to reach the mujahidin, do you have any advice for them with regards to carrying out lone operations against the enemies of the religion in Misr, and specifically the Christians? Can you give them some direction or offer any words of advice? Answer: I say to those Muslims in Misr from among the people of tawhid and jihad who have recognized the truth and followed it, you must revive the call to tawhid and jihad for the cause of Allah, join your brothers in the Islamic State, and adhere to the Jama’ah. If you are unable to reach the Islamic State, seek Allah’s aid, take precaution, prepare your strength as much as you are able, and plan operations against the Christians and the apostates. Cause them tremendous harm and detriment, and let them see from you the might of the believers, as well as your eagerness to attain shahadah for the cause of Allah. And know that there is no other option when we fight aside from attaining victory or being killed and achieving shahadah. Beware of being detained by the soldiers of these tawaghit, and have patience and conviction, for indeed Allah will grant us conquest of this land and consolidation therein, and it will be soon, with Allah’s permission. Allah c said, “And We have already written in the Psalms, after the Remembrance, that the land shall be inherited by My righteous slaves” (Al-Anbiya 105). And you will not be harmed by those who oppose you or abandon you, for you are the victorious group which prevails over its enemy, and all praise is due to Allah. So be patient upon your estrangement, for Allah c has said, “So fight in the cause of Allah; you are not held responsible except for yourself. And incite the believers, that perhaps Allah will restrain the might of those who disbelieve. And Allah is greater in might and more severe in exemplary punishment” (An-Nisa 84). Question: What message would you like to direct to the Christians in Misr? Answer: We say to them, the Sunnah of Allah is taking its course with you and the ruling of Allah and His Messenger is coming to pass on you, and you are given the choice between three matters: It is either Islam, jizyah, or war, and your weapons will be of no avail to you, nor will the allegiance of the apostate tawaghit and their soldiers to you, for they cannot even protect themselves from the soldiers of the Khilafah – by Allah’s grace – so how can they protect you?! And indeed, your disbelief and arrogance is the path to your destruction, either by a punishment from Allah or by our hands. Question: What message would you like to direct to the Muslims in Misr? Answer: I say to them, upon you is the Book of Allah and the Sunnah of His Messenger g. Take hold of them, cling firmly to them, and implement them in your lives. Do not be in awe of your enemy, and have certainty in Allah’s promise to His believing slaves. Allah c said, “They will not harm you except for [some] annoyance. And if they fight you, they will show you their backs; then they will not be aided” (Al ‘Imran 111). And we emphatically warn you to stay far away from any places where the Christians gather or where their interests are to be found, and likewise from any places where the army and the police gather and where the political and economic interests of the government are to be found, and also from any places where the citizens of the Crusader nations of the West are found, and other such places. These are all valid targets for us and we can strike them at any point in time, with Allah’s permission, and we do not want any of you to be harmed in any operations that target these disbelievers and mushrikin. So stay far away from them, and let those who know this inform those who do not know. We ask Allah to keep us and you safe. Question: What message would you like to direct to the tawaghit of Misr? Answer: I say to the enemies of Allah, you, O cowardly tawaghit, continue to increase in your kufr and transgression, you spread corruption in the land, and you inflict the worst of torment on the weakened Muslims. You wish to cover your defeats and your weakness in your war against the soldiers of the Islamic State but you will not be able to do so, for your affair has been exposed. We are lying in wait to ambush you, and we will soon be victorious – with Allah’s permission – so wait, for we too are waiting. And seeking the aid of the Jews and Crusaders in waging war against us will not benefit you, for they are even more blind and more foolish than you. They continue to be defeated at our hands in every land in which they fight us, and victory does not come except from Allah. And I say to the apostate soldiers of the tawaghit, repent from your apostasy, disavow yourselves of this government, and show enmity towards it before we overpower you, for if we overpower you, there will be nothing for you from us but death. And we are aware of the extent of torture and abuse which you inflict on the muwahhidin in your prisons, and of the fact that you openly declare that you oppose and wage war against Allah, His Messenger, and the believers. So we warn you of the evil consequences of your deeds, and we warn you not to harm any of the wives or relatives of the mujahidin in the slightest, for they are not like others. And if your eyes remain blind and your ears remain deaf to this warning, and you remain arrogant and do not cease employing these cowardly methods, then we swear by Allah the Almighty, the Subduer, that you will not enjoy a moment of security, with Allah’s permission, and then you will never be successful. At that point, regret will be of no benefit to you. And Allah prevails over His affair, but most people do not know.